
[[page 1]]

## Frontier Safety Framework


## Frontier Safety
## Framework

## Version 3.1
## Published: April 17, 2026




[[page 2]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Overview
The Frontier Safety Framework is a set of protocols that aims to address severe risks that may arise from
the high-impact capabilities of frontier AI models. It complements Google’s suite of AI responsibility and
safety practices, and enables Google’s AI innovation and deployment consistent with our AI Principles.
The Framework is informed by the broader conversation on Frontier AI Safety and Security Frameworks.1
The core components of such Frameworks are to:

●​
Identify capability levels at which frontier AI models, without additional mitigations, could pose
severe risk.
●​
Implement protocols to detect the attainment of such capability levels throughout the model
lifecycle.
●​
Prepare and articulate proactive mitigation plans to ensure severe risks are adequately mitigated
when such capability levels are attained.
●​
Where required or appropriate, involve external parties to help inform and guide the approach.
In the Framework, we specify protocols for the detection of capability levels at which frontier AI models
may pose significant or severe risks (which we call “Tracked Capability Levels (TCLs)” and “Critical
Capability Levels (CCLs)” respectively), and articulate mitigation approaches to address such risks. The
Framework addresses misuse risk2 as well as machine learning research and development (ML R&D) and
misalignment risk.3 For each type of risk, we define a set of CCLs (and TCLs where relevant) and a
mitigation approach for them. Risk assessment will necessarily involve evaluating cross-cutting
capabilities such as agency, tool use, reasoning, and scientific understanding. Please refer to the
Glossary at the end of this document for definitions used in the Framework.
The safety and security of frontier AI models is a global public good. The protocols here represent our
current understanding and approach of how severe frontier AI risks may be anticipated and addressed.
Importantly, there are certain mitigations whose social value is significantly reduced if not broadly
applied to frontier AI models reaching critical capabilities. These mitigations are most effective when
adopted by industry as a whole: our adoption of them would result in effective risk mitigation for society
only if all relevant organizations provide similar levels of protection.
The Framework is based on early and evolving research. We may change our approach over time as we
gain experience and insights on the projected capabilities of future frontier models. We will review the
Framework periodically and we expect it to evolve substantially as our understanding of the risks and
benefits of frontier models improves.


3 In the context of the Framework, we address specific scenarios where model misalignment may create the risk of
significant or severe harm, and scenarios where ML R&D capabilities may heighten misalignment, misuse, and
structural risks.

2 As in, in the context of the Framework, risks of threat actors using critical capabilities of deployed or exfiltrated
models to cause harm.

1 See https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/emerging-processes-for-frontier-ai-safety, https://metr.org/faisc,
https://www.anthropic.com/rsp-updates, https://www.anthropic.com/news/compliance-framework-SB53,
https://openai.com/index/updating-our-preparedness-framework/,
https://www.frontiermodelforum.org/publications/#technical-reports.

Frontier Safety Framework | 2



[[page 3]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Table of Contents

Section 1: Framework​
4

1.1 Scope​
4

1.2 Critical Capability Levels and Tracked Capability Levels​
4

1.3 Risk Management Process​
5

1.3.1 Risk Identification​
5

1.3.2 Inherent Risk Assessment​
5

1.3.3 Risk Mitigation​
6

1.3.4 Residual Risk Assessment​
6

1.3.5 Risk Acceptance Determination​
7

Section 2: Misuse​
9

2.1 Mitigation Approach​
9

2.1.1 Security Mitigations​
9

2.1.2 Deployment Mitigations​
10

2.2 Misuse Capability Levels​
11

2.2.1 Chemical, Biological, Radiological or Nuclear​
11

2.2.2 Cyber​
12

2.2.3 Harmful Manipulation​
12

Section 3: Machine Learning R&D and Misalignment​
13

3.1 Mitigation Approach​
13

3.1.1 Security Mitigations​
13

3.1.2 Deployment Mitigations​
13

3.2 ML R&D and Misalignment Capability Levels​
14

3.2.1 Stealth and Situational Awareness Tracked Capability Level​
14

3.2.2 ML R&D Critical Capability Levels​
14

Section 4: Governance and Accountability​
16

4.1 Governance structure​
16

Section 5: Updates and Disclosures​
17

5.1 Updates​
17

5.2 Disclosures​
17

5.3 Past Updates and Changes​
17

Glossary​
18



Frontier Safety Framework | 3



[[page 4]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Section 1: Framework

This section describes the central components of the Frontier Safety Framework. These protocols
represent our current understanding of and approach for how severe frontier AI risks may be anticipated
and addressed.
## 1.1 Scope
The Frontier Safety Framework focuses on possible severe risks stemming from high-impact capabilities
of frontier AI models. The Framework complements Google’s suite of AI responsibility and safety
practices, which address other risks in addition to the severe risks in scope of the Framework in
accordance with our AI Principles. The approaches and mitigations outlined in the Framework are not
exclusive to models where we believe a severe risk could arise and are part of Google’s comprehensive
AI responsibility and safety practices.
## 1.2 Critical Capability Levels and Tracked Capability Levels
The Framework is built primarily around capability thresholds called “Critical Capability Levels (CCLs).”
These are capability levels at which, absent mitigation measures, frontier AI models or systems may pose
heightened risk of severe harm. CCLs are determined by identifying and analyzing the main foreseeable
paths through which a model could result in severe harm: we then define the CCLs as the minimal set of
capabilities a model must possess to do so. CCLs are one important component of our risk acceptance
determination.
We identify CCLs for two kinds of risks: misuse risk and risks related to machine learning R&D and
misalignment.
For misuse risk, we define CCLs in the following risk domains where the misuse of model capabilities
may result in severe harm:

●​
CBRN: Risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or execution of a
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (“CBRN”) threat.
●​
Cyber: Risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or execution of a cyber
attack.
●​
Harmful Manipulation: Risks of models with high manipulative capabilities potentially being
misused in ways that could reasonably result in large scale harm.
For machine learning R&D and misalignment risks, we define CCLs that identify when ML R&D
capabilities in our models may, if not properly managed, reduce society’s overall ability to manage AI
risks. Such capabilities may serve as a substantial cross-cutting risk factor for several pathways (e.g.
through misalignment, misuse or structural risks) to severe harm.
This update to the Framework introduces “Tracked Capability Levels (TCLs).” TCLs are meant to
capture significant risks that may manifest at a lower capability threshold than our CCLs and we apply
our mitigation and risk acceptance determination process proportionately. We identify TCLs for CBRN
risk, as well as ML R&D and misalignment risks. We may include TCLs for additional risks in the future, as
our threat modeling develops. Similarly to CCLs, early warning evaluations will be used to assess the
proximity of a model to a TCL and analyze the risk posed, involving internal and external experts as
needed.

Frontier Safety Framework | 4



[[page 5]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

## 1.3 Risk Management Process
We conduct our risk management process as appropriate, throughout the model development process,
on various checkpoints or versions of a model, both before and after deployment.
## 1.3.1 Risk Identification
The first part of our risk management process is risk identification. We identify potential risks that could
stem from our models and analyze their characteristics to determine which of the identified risks could
be significant or severe risks. We consider a wide range of risks as part of our ongoing research, taking
into account the characteristics, capabilities, propensities, and affordances of our models and other
sources of information, such as our internal risk taxonomies, internal expertise and relevant external
research. As explained above, we have identified risk domains where, based on early research, we have
determined significant or severe risks may be most likely to arise from future models: CBRN, cyber,
harmful manipulation, as well as machine learning R&D and misalignment. As part of our broader
research into and development of frontier AI models, we continue to assess whether there are other risk
domains where significant or severe risks may arise and will update our approach as appropriate. For
each of the four identified domains, we have developed specific scenarios and T/CCLs in which these
risks could materialize.
## 1.3.2 Inherent Risk Assessment
To understand whether a model may, without appropriate mitigations, contribute to the risks identified,
we conduct a closer assessment of its capabilities against the T/CCLs. We conduct a critical capability
assessment prior to the first external deployment4 of a new frontier AI model. For external deployment
of subsequent versions of the model, we determine whether a substantial modification has been made
and whether a further critical capability assessment is required if (1) the model has meaningful new
capabilities or material increases in performance; and (2) we believe such material capability increase
could materially undermine the justification for why the risks stemming from the model are acceptable.
To understand if a subsequent version of the model has meaningful new capabilities or material
increases in performance relative to the last checkpoint subject to a critical capability assessment, we
conduct material capability change assessments on various checkpoints upon the completion of a
post-training run. These assessments draw on model characteristics, such as its provenance, size,
modality, and performance on general capability benchmarks. To understand if such a change in
capability in the subsequent version of the model could materially undermine the justification for why the
risks stemming from the model are acceptable, we may also conduct light-weight versions of our “early
warning evaluations” described below, including our automated benchmarks, to confirm a model
remains below T/CCL. We may also apply material capability change assessments to models not on the
frontier, to understand whether a critical capability assessment is required.
Central to our critical capability assessments are “early warning evaluations,” which we use to test the
specific threats and risk scenarios identified through our threat modeling, determine a model’s capability,
and assess the proximity of the model to a T/CCL. For CCLs, we define “alert thresholds,” which may
draw on evaluation results, expert assessments, and other sources of information; that are designed to
flag when a CCL may be reached before a critical capability assessment is conducted again. In our
evaluations, we seek to apply appropriate scaffolding, inference compute, and other augmentations to
also assess the capabilities of systems that will likely be produced with the model based on the specific
threats and risk scenarios we have identified for the T/CCL. We may run early warning evaluations more

4 A critical capability assessment may not be conducted for low-risk external deployments (e.g. to a small number of
trusted testers) if the appropriate governance function determines the residual risk of such deployments to be
acceptable even if the model has reached a T/CCL (including with a safety case where a CCL has been reached).

Frontier Safety Framework | 5



[[page 6]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

frequently or adjust alert thresholds if the rate of progress suggests our safety buffer is no longer
adequate. We conduct further analysis, including reviewing model-independent information, external
evaluations, and post-market monitoring as appropriate. In particular, we strive to learn from our
post-market monitoring mechanisms, including as part of our detection, mitigation, response and/or
reporting of incidents relating to our frontier safety risk domains. Actionable insights from these
processes allow us to enhance our tools, training, processes, policies, and response efforts.
Our approach to model evaluations and inherent risk assessments described above means we can
proactively monitor a model’s capabilities throughout the entire lifecycle of the model and ensure that
any significant or severe risk is properly identified and mitigated. Where appropriate, we may engage
relevant external actors, including governments, to inform our responsible development and deployment
practices.
Note on Machine Learning R&D CCLs: Risk assessment must take into account the fact that other
actors may put significantly more effort into eliciting capabilities than we put into assessing risk, thus
requiring conservatism in the form of evaluations. However, as a frontier AI company, we do not expect
other groups to put significantly more effort into ML R&D than we do ourselves. As a result, to assess the
ML R&D CCLs, we may use sources of information about our own progress at accelerating ML R&D to
assess whether we are near or at the ML R&D CCLs, in addition to evaluations of ML R&D capabilities.
## 1.3.3 Risk Mitigation
We apply safety and security mitigations throughout the lifecycle of our models, including as part of our
training and model development phase and, where appropriate, before T/CCLs are reached as described
in the process below.
When a model reaches an alert threshold for a CCL, we will assess the proximity of the model to the CCL
and analyze the risk posed, involving internal and external experts as needed. This will inform the
formulation and application of a response plan. Central to most response plans will be the application of
the mitigations described later in the Framework. However, if we assess that risks stemming from the
model remain acceptable and model capabilities remain distant from a CCL, the response plan may
include updating the alert threshold to ensure the safety buffer remains appropriate.
We have two categories of mitigations: security mitigations (such as preventing the exfiltration of model
weights), and deployment mitigations (such as safety fine-tuning and monitoring and response)
intended to counter the misuse or misaligned expression of critical capabilities in deployments.
The mitigations described in this document are limited to those mitigations that will be required to bring
a model to an acceptable level of risk relative just to the specific T/CCL, which by definition pose the
greatest risks of harm. Because we cannot always anticipate what security and deployment mitigations
will be appropriate for models beyond the current frontier, the specific mitigations we implement may be
determined when a T/CCL is reached, informed by the threat landscape at that time. These mitigations
also reflect considerations from the perspective of addressing significant and severe risks from powerful
capabilities alone; due to this focused scope, other risk management and security considerations may
result in more stringent mitigations applied to a model than specified by the Framework.
## 1.3.4 Residual Risk Assessment
We will use various processes to evaluate the effectiveness and limitations of mitigations:

●​
Security mitigations: security infrastructure at Google is subject to penetration testing and
other kinds of assessments, and is continually improved based on these results.

Frontier Safety Framework | 6



[[page 7]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

●​
Deployment mitigations: we will use a combination of threat modeling, empirical testing, and
other sources of information to assess the effectiveness and limitations of our deployment
mitigations.
Models reaching TCLs or CCLs will be subject to residual risk assessments as part of evaluating their
deployment mitigations. For models reaching CCLs, the residual risk assessment will be informed by a
supplemental safety case. See the deployment mitigations sections below regarding misuse and
machine learning R&D and misalignment for more.
## 1.3.5 Risk Acceptance Determination
The Framework outlines the risk acceptance determination approach for different model risks
and capabilities pertaining to significant and severe risks. To summarize:

●​
A model for which inherent risk assessment indicates no T/CCL is reached will be deemed to
pose an acceptable level of risk for further development and deployment, because it should not
possess the capabilities required to substantially contribute to significant or severe risk
scenarios.
●​
A model for which the inherent risk assessment indicates a misuse T/CCL has been reached will
be deemed to pose an acceptable level of residual risk for further development or deployment,
if:

○​
We assess that the deployment mitigations have brought the residual risk of harm to an
acceptable level, based on considerations such as the effectiveness of mitigations, the
scope of the deployment, what capabilities and mitigations are available on other
publicly available models (e.g. if other models are similarly capable and have few
mitigations, then the marginal risk added by our external deployment is likely low), and
the historical incidence and severity of related events. This is required only for external
deployment, not internal deployment or further development.
○​
Security mitigations have been applied to the model weights reaching the
recommended security level stated below, or we otherwise assess that the level of
security applied is adequate, e.g. based on mitigations already in place, if they match or
exceed the level of security applied to other models with similar capabilities or risk
profiles, or we assess that the benefits of the open release of model weights outweigh
the risks.
●​
A model for which the inherent risk assessment indicates a ML R&D CCL has been reached will
be deemed to pose an acceptable level of residual risk for further development or deployment,
if:

○​
We assess that the deployment mitigations have brought the residual risk of severe
harm to an acceptable level, based on considerations such as the effectiveness of
mitigations, and information pertaining to model propensities and the severity of related
events.5 This is required only for external deployment and high-risk internal deployment,
not further development.
○​
Security mitigations have been applied to the model weights reaching the
recommended security level stated below, or we otherwise assess that the level of
security applied is adequate, e.g. based on mitigations already in place, if they match or
exceed the level of security applied to other models with similar capabilities or risk
profiles, or we assess that the benefits of the open release of model weights outweigh
the risks.

5 Note that deployment mitigations for the ML R&D CCLs are different than those for the misuse CCLs because of
differences in which deployment could lead to severe harm for those respective categories. In contrast, security
mitigations protecting against weights exfiltration and unauthorized modification are generally beneficial to both
kinds of risk.

Frontier Safety Framework | 7



[[page 8]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

●​
A model for which the inherent risk assessment indicates the TCL for ML R&D and misalignment
risk has been reached will be deemed to pose an acceptable level of residual risk for further
development or deployment, if:

○​
We assess that the deployment mitigations have brought the residual risk of significant
harm to an acceptable level, based on considerations such as the effectiveness of
mitigations, and information pertaining to model propensities and the severity of related
events, or if we assess that the model is very unlikely to possess the propensities that
would be required for material risk of significant harm through misalignment risk. This is
required only for external deployment and high-risk internal deployment, not further
development.
○​
We assess that the level of security applied is adequate, e.g. based on mitigations
already in place, if they match or exceed the level of security applied to other models
with similar capabilities or risk profiles, or we assess that the benefits of the open
release of model weights outweigh the risks.
Note: Assessing frontier AI capabilities and corresponding significant and severe risk is a complex
process. Because the science of AI risk assessment is still developing, our assessments will often involve
some level of subjective analysis. The concept of proportionality is central to our determination of
whether a particular mitigation has sufficiently reduced the risk to acceptable levels. The mitigation and
the effects of such mitigation should also be assessed holistically and be proportionate with expected
impact of a model’s risk, thus balancing safety with innovation.


Frontier Safety Framework | 8



[[page 9]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Section 2: Misuse

This section describes our mitigation approach for models that pose risks of significant or severe harm
through misuse, and then details our set of misuse T/CCLs (CBRN, cyber and harmful manipulation), as
well as the mitigation approach that we assess as appropriate for them.
## 2.1 Mitigation Approach
There are two categories of mitigations to address models with misuse critical capabilities: security
mitigations intended to prevent the exfiltration or unauthorized modification of model weights, and
deployment mitigations intended to counter the misuse of critical capabilities in external deployments.
For security, we have several levels of mitigations, allowing calibration of the appropriateness and
robustness of security measures to the risks posed. Regarding deployment mitigations for models
reaching T/CCLs, we specify a standard process for applying, assessing, and reviewing mitigations: the
aim of this process is to calibrate mitigations to T/CCLs, and the procedural approach reflects the more
iterative and T/CCL-dependent nature of deployment mitigations. This structured process for
deployment mitigations is centered on assessing and reviewing that the risk of severe harm has been
brought to an acceptable level proportionate to the risk.
## 2.1.1 Security Mitigations
Security mitigations against exfiltration or unauthorized modification risk, such as identity and access
management practices and hardening interface-access to unreleased model parameters, are important
for models reaching misuse CCLs. This is because the release or unauthorized modification of model
weights may enable the removal of any safeguards trained into or deployed with the model, and hence
access (including by threat actors) to any critical capabilities.
Using Google’s Secure AI Framework (SAIF) and Google’s common security infrastructure, we
implement state-of-the-art security mitigations. SAIF is a defense-in-depth approach that embeds
security into every layer of our AI systems—from data and infrastructure to models and applications.
SAIF is premised on six core elements: strong security foundations, detection and response, automated
defenses, harmonized platform-level controls, adaptable controls to mitigate emerging threats, and
end-to-end risk assessments.
We use security levels to indicate security goals/principles in line with the corresponding level in the
RAND model weight security framework.6 We also define and recommend "Security Level 2+," which uses
RAND Security Level 2 (SL2) as a baseline, with additional security measures designed to address risks
from insider threats and well-resourced non-state external actors. These additional measures may
include, for example: dedicated insider risk teams; background checks and ID verification for personnel
with sensitive access; review of model training data for signs of tampering; mandating that the
processing of untrusted inputs occurs within sandboxed environments; advanced red-teaming that
simulates well-resourced adversaries (including Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) groups); and proactive
threat hunting with 24/7 incident response capabilities.
Because AI security is an area of active research, we expect the concrete measures implemented to
reach each level of security to evolve substantially.

6 In other words, “security level N” indicates security controls and detections at a level generally aligned with RAND
SL N. See https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2849-1.html, pp 21-22. In aligning our security levels with
RAND’s, we are referring to the security goals and principles in the RAND framework, rather than the benchmarks
(i.e. concrete measures) also described in the RAND report. As the authors point out, the “security level benchmarks
represent neither a complete standard nor a compliance regime—they are provided for informational purposes only
and should inform security teams’ decisions rather than supersede them.”

Frontier Safety Framework | 9



[[page 10]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

## 2.1.2 Deployment Mitigations
The following mitigation process for external deployments will be applied to models reaching a misuse
T/CCL, allowing for iterative and flexible tailoring of mitigations to each risk and use case.

1.​
Development and assessment of mitigations: safeguards and an accompanying residual risk
assessment are developed by iterating on the following:

a.​
Developing and improving a suite of safeguards targeting the capability, which may
include measures such as safety post-training, monitoring and analysis, account
moderation, jailbreak detection and patching, user verification, and bug bounties.7
b.​ Assessing the robustness of these mitigations against the risk posed through testing

(e.g. automated evaluations, red teaming) and threat modeling research. This residual
risk assessment could take into account factors such as:

i.​
The effectiveness of the mitigations. For example, tests run on mitigated models
may suggest that the refusal rate and jailbreak robustness together imply that
threat actors are unlikely to be able to circumvent safeguards.
ii.​
The likelihood and consequences of model misuse, capability improvements
after the risk assessment, and likelihood and consequences of our mitigations
being circumvented, deactivated, or subverted.
iii.​
The scope of the deployment. For example, small scale and private deployments
may pose substantially less risk than large scale or public deployments.
iv.​
What capabilities and mitigations are available on other publicly available
models. For example, whether another (non-Google) publicly deployed model is
at the same T/CCL, and has mitigations that are less effective at preventing
misuse than that of the model being assessed, in which case the deployment of
this model is less likely to materially increase risk.
v.​
The historical incidence and severity of related events: for example, whether
data suggests a high (or low) likelihood of attempted misuse of models at the
T/CCL. Mitigations would consequently have to be stronger (or would not have
to be so strong) for deployment to be appropriate.
c.​ Where the model has reached a CCL, the residual risk assessment will be supplemented

with a safety case.
2.​ Pre-deployment review of residual risk assessment: external deployments of a model take
place only after the appropriate governance function determines the residual risk to be
acceptable (including a safety case where a CCL has been reached). In particular, we will deem
deployment mitigations adequate if the evidence suggests that for the T/CCLs the model has
reached, the increase in likelihood of harm from the proposed external deployment has been
reduced to an acceptable level.
3.​ Post-deployment processes: our residual risk assessments, safety cases and mitigations may
be updated as a result of post-market monitoring, including information about incidents relating
to our frontier safety risk domains. Material updates to a safety case will be submitted to the
appropriate governance function for review and might result in updates to the related residual
risk assessment or safety case.
This process is designed to ensure that residual risk remains at acceptable levels: evidence of efficacy
collected during development and testing, as well as expert-driven estimates of other parameters, will
enable us to assess residual risk and to detect substantial changes that invalidate our risk assessment.
With iteration on mitigations and residual risk assessments, we believe that we are able to make
informed decisions about the level of risk via a T/CCL before a model is deployed, and prevent models
posing unacceptable levels of risk from being deployed.

7 See section 5 of https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01849.

Frontier Safety Framework | 10



[[page 11]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

While we monitor for potential future risks related to insider misuse, our current assessment of these risk
domains indicates that the risks of insider misuse posed by the misuse T/CCLs identified below are
effectively addressed by our baseline controls (such as background checks and access restrictions). At
this stage, additional mitigations beyond these established safeguards are not required.
## 2.2 Misuse Capability Levels
We set out below a set of CBRN, cyber, and harmful manipulation CCLs as well as the CBRN TCL that we
have identified through ongoing analysis of these risk domains. We expect these to evolve over time. We
recommend a security level for each CCL, which reflects our assessment of the minimum appropriate
level of security the field of frontier AI should apply to models reaching each CCL. In practice, our overall
security posture may commonly exceed the baseline levels recommended here.
These recommended security levels reflect our current thinking proportionate to the risks posed and
may be adjusted if our understanding of the risks changes. This may occur if, for example, a model does
not possess capabilities meaningfully different from other publicly available models that have weaker
security applied (in which case the marginal benefit of higher security is limited), or if we assess that the
benefits of the open release of model weights outweigh the risks. Relatedly, we believe these
recommendations will only be effective if the entire frontier AI field applies them, and of limited social
utility if not.
## 2.2.1 Chemical, Biological, Radiological or Nuclear
This risk domain focuses on risks of models assisting in the development, preparation and/or execution
of a CBRN threat.

## Table 2.2.1.a: CBRN CCL and Security Mitigations

Critical Capability Level
Recommended security level and rationale

CBRN uplift level 1:
Provides low to medium
resourced actors uplift in
reference scenarios
resulting in additional8
expected harm at severe
scale.

Security level 2+
The difficulty of building defenses against certain CBRN threats
means the exfiltration, unauthorized modification, and leak of model
weights with this capability could be highly damaging.
However, the low to medium resourced actors who would be likely to
experience the most CBRN uplift are unlikely to pose a substantial
exfiltration threat at the level of OC3 groups as defined by RAND.

CBRN Tracked Capability Level
The CBRN TCL is defined as follows:

CBRN uplift TCL: Provides low to medium resourced actors uplift in reference scenarios,
resulting in material risk of CBRN attacks that could result in significant but not severe harm.

8 Here, and in other misuse T/CCLs, we intend this to mean relative to a baseline without generative AI.

Frontier Safety Framework | 11



[[page 12]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

## 2.2.2 Cyber
This risk domain focuses on risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or execution
of a cyber attack.

## Table 2.2.2.a: Cyber CCL and Security Mitigations

Critical Capability Level
Recommended security level and rationale

Cyber uplift level 1:
Provides sufficient uplift
with high impact cyber
attacks for additional
expected harm at severe
scale.

Security level 2+
Models able to greatly assist cyber attack might be of interest to
well-resourced state actors. However, the potential for automated
cyber-defense and social adaptation as a response to exfiltration
means that higher levels of security, and the resulting costs to
innovation, are likely not warranted.

## 2.2.3 Harmful Manipulation
This risk domain focuses on risks of models with high manipulative capabilities potentially being misused
in ways that could reasonably result in large scale harm.
Note: The research into harmful manipulation from a severe risk perspective is nascent. The CCL and our
assessment of the risk in this domain is exploratory and subject to further research, and may be
substantially changed over time.

## Table 2.2.3.a: Harmful Manipulation CCL and Security Mitigations

Critical Capability Level
Recommended security level and rationale

Harmful manipulation level
1 (exploratory): Possesses
manipulative capabilities
sufficient to enable it to
systematically and
substantially change beliefs
and behavior in identified
high stakes contexts over
the course of interactions
with the model, reasonably
resulting in additional
expected harm at severe
scale.

Security level 2+
The lower velocity of harm scenarios associated with this CCL and
the viability of social defenses against large-scale misuse of such
models count against security mitigations with substantial costs to
innovation.


Frontier Safety Framework | 12



[[page 13]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Section 3: Machine Learning R&D and Misalignment

This section describes our mitigation approach for models that pose risks of significant or severe harm
through machine learning R&D and misalignment, and then details our set of TCL and CCLs, as well as
the mitigations that we provisionally assess as appropriate for them.
## 3.1 Mitigation Approach
As with misuse T/CCLs, we take a similar approach to security and deployment mitigations for ML R&D
and Misalignment T/CCLs, although deployment mitigations focus on different threat models and
therefore also include measures for high-risk internal deployments.
## 3.1.1 Security Mitigations
Security mitigations against exfiltration and unauthorized modification risk are important for models
reaching ML R&D CCLs. In addition, exfiltration of highly capable models increases the likelihood they will
be misused to achieve other critical capabilities, or deployed without adequate control and oversight.
Below, we rely again on security levels to articulate the security goal recommended for each CCL.9
Security mitigations also protect against the risk of the model exfiltrating itself.
## 3.1.2 Deployment Mitigations
The following mitigation process will be applied for deployments of a model reaching a ML R&D and
Misalignment T/CCL. The approach is similar to misuse deployment mitigations, with an added focus on
high-risk internal deployments.

1.​ Development and assessment of mitigations: safeguards and an accompanying residual risk
assessment are developed by iterating on the following:

a.​
Developing and improving a suite of safeguards targeting the capability, which may
include measures such as limiting affordances, monitoring and escalation, auditing, and
alignment training, in addition to measures for preventing large-scale misuse.10
b.​ Assessing the robustness of these mitigations against the risk posed in both internal and

external deployment through testing (e.g. automated evaluations, red teaming) and
threat modeling research. This residual risk assessment could take into account factors
such as:

i.​
The effectiveness of the mitigations. For example, tests run on the safeguards
may suggest that it is very unlikely they can be circumvented by external threat
actors or the model in question.
ii.​
The likelihood and consequences of model misuse or misalignment, capability
improvements after the risk assessment, and likelihood and consequences of
our mitigations being circumvented, deactivated, or subverted.
iii.​
The scope of the deployment. For example, small-scale and private deployments
may pose substantially less risk than large-scale or public deployments.
iv.​
Model propensity for, historical incidence of and severity of related events: for
example, such data may suggest a high (or low) likelihood of misalignment in or
misuse of models at the T/CCL, and mitigations would consequently have to be
stronger (or not as strong) for deployment to be appropriate.
c.​ Where the model has reached a CCL, the residual risk assessment will be supplemented

with a safety case.

10 See section 6 of https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01849.

9 While the RAND framework is not specifically designed to address this case, we index it at present because it is the
most useful reference in this area.

Frontier Safety Framework | 13



[[page 14]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

2.​ Pre-deployment review of residual risk assessment: external deployments and high-risk
internal deployments of a model take place only after the appropriate governance function
determines the residual risk to be acceptable (including a safety case where a CCL has been
reached). In particular, we will deem deployment mitigations adequate if the evidence suggests
that for the T/CCLs the model has reached, the increase in likelihood of harm from the proposed
deployment has been reduced to an acceptable level.
3.​ Post-deployment processes: our residual risk assessments, safety cases and mitigations may
be updated as a result of post-market monitoring, including information about incidents relating
to our frontier safety risk domains. Material updates to a safety case will be submitted to the
appropriate governance function for review and might result in updates to the related residual
risk assessment or safety case.
This process is designed to ensure that residual risk remains at acceptable levels: evidence of efficacy
collected during development and testing, as well as expert-driven estimates of other parameters, will
enable us to assess residual risk and to detect substantial changes that invalidate our risk assessment.
With iteration on mitigations and residual risk assessments, we believe that we are able to make
informed decisions about the level of risk via a T/CCL before a model is deployed, and prevent models
posing unacceptable levels of risk from being deployed.
## 3.2 ML R&D and Misalignment Capability Levels
We take a tiered approach to addressing ML R&D and misalignment risks:

●​
We set a Stealth and Situational Awareness TCL that indicates a baseline level of model capability
above which misalignment risks may begin to arise. At this capability level we apply a
proportionate set of mitigation and risk acceptance determination processes.
●​
We set ML R&D CCLs that indicate higher capability levels at which misalignment, misuse and
structural risks are heightened and may reach a severe scale. At these capability levels we apply
a stronger set of mitigations, and follow the risk acceptance process as detailed in the rest of the
framework.
## 3.2.1 Stealth and Situational Awareness Tracked Capability Level
The Stealth and Situational Awareness TCL is defined as follows:

Stealth and Situational Awareness TCL: The instrumental reasoning abilities of the model
enable enough situational awareness (ability to discover and use relevant details of its
deployment setting) and stealth (ability to circumvent basic oversight mechanisms) such that,
absent additional mitigations, we cannot rule out the model significantly undermining human
control.
When a model has reached this TCL, we will carry out periodic residual risk assessments of the
misalignment risk posed. This assessment may take into account models’ alignment propensities,
capabilities, and our defenses against misaligned models. Since misalignment risks can manifest through
internal use, these assessments will also account for the safety implications of high-risk internal
deployments for such models. If the risk assessment deems the residual risk from internal deployment to
be unacceptable without additional safeguards (such as chain-of-thought monitoring on high-risk
deployments), these will be applied.
## 3.2.2 ML R&D Critical Capability Levels
We define ML R&D CCLs at capability levels at which misalignment, misuse and structural risks may reach
a severe scale. We expect these to evolve over time. We recommend a security level for each of these

Frontier Safety Framework | 14



[[page 15]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

CCLs, which reflect our assessment of the minimum appropriate level of security the field of frontier AI
should apply to models reaching each CCL.11

## Table 3.2.2.a: ML R&D CCLs and Security Mitigations

Critical Capability Level
Recommended security level and rationale

ML R&D acceleration level 1:
Has been used to accelerate
AI development, resulting in
AI progress substantially
accelerating from historical
rates.

Security level 312
Unrestricted access to models at this level of capability could
significantly increase a threat actor’s ability to progress to yet more
powerful models and other critical capabilities. The exfiltration of such
a model may therefore have a significant effect on society’s ability to
adapt to and govern powerful AI models, effects that may have
long-lasting consequences. Substantially strengthened security is
therefore recommended.
However, we expect that acceleration will stem from systems of
models integrated with workflows, rather than the model alone. The
overall reduced impact of model weights counts against security
levels with substantial innovation costs.

ML R&D automation level 1:
Can fully automate the work
of any team of researchers at
Google focused on improving
AI capabilities, with
approximately comparable
all-inclusive costs.

We recommend Security level 413 for this capability threshold, but
emphasize that this must be taken on by the frontier AI field as a
whole.
Unrestricted access to models at this level of capability could give an
actor (or AI systems) with adequate computational resources the
ability to reach capabilities much more powerful than those in the
other CCLs listed in a short amount of time. This could be
catastrophic if there is no effective way of defending against rapidly
improving and potentially superhuman AI systems wielded by threat
actors. Therefore, we recommend models at this level of capability
have exceptional security even though they may have substantial
innovation costs.



13 This level may include mitigations aligned with SL 2+ and 3, plus additional mitigations aimed to isolate model
weights, enhanced data center security, further hardening of infrastructure and minimizing potential attack surface.

12 This level may include mitigations aligned with SL 2+, plus additional mitigations designed to prevent unilateral
access, harden infrastructure, and prevent data exfiltration.

11 The same caveats regarding security levels for misuse CCLs apply.

Frontier Safety Framework | 15



[[page 16]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Section 4: Governance and Accountability

## 4.1 Governance structure
We have in place a well-established and comprehensive internal governance structure designed to
ensure the robust implementation of the processes outlined in this Frontier Safety Framework.
Responsibilities for assessing and mitigating risks are clearly defined and allocated across all levels of the
organization. This includes legal, compliance, and safety reviews with escalation procedures to ensure
appropriate oversight.


Frontier Safety Framework | 16



[[page 17]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Section 5: Updates and Disclosures

## 5.1 Updates
The Frontier Safety Framework will be reviewed at least once a year—more frequently if we have
reasonable grounds to believe the adequacy of the Framework or our adherence to it has been
materially undermined. The process will involve (i) an assessment of the Framework’s appropriateness for
the management of significant and severe risk, drawing on information sources such as record of
adherence to the framework, relevant high-quality research, information shared through industry
forums, and evaluation results, as necessary, and (ii) an assessment of our adherence to the Framework.
Following this assessment, we may:

●​
Update our risk domains and T/CCLs, where necessary.
●​
Update our testing and mitigation approaches, where needed to ensure risk remains adequately
assessed and addressed according to our current understanding.
The updated version and framework assessment will be reviewed by the appropriate corporate
governance bodies.
## 5.2 Disclosures
If we assess that a model has reached a CCL that poses an unmitigated and material risk to overall public
safety, we aim to share relevant information with appropriate government authorities where it will
facilitate safety of frontier AI. Where appropriate, and subject to adequate confidentiality and security
measures and considerations around proprietary and sensitive information, this information may include:

●​
Model information: characteristics of the AI model relevant to the risk it may pose with its
critical capabilities.
●​
Evaluation results: such as details about the evaluation design, the results, and any robustness
tests.
●​
Mitigation plans: descriptions of our mitigation plans and how they are expected to reduce the
risk.
We may also consider disclosing information to other external organizations to promote shared learning
and coordinated risk mitigation. We will continue to review and evolve our disclosure process over time.
## 5.3 Past Updates and Changes
Versions:

●​
Version 3.1 (April 17, 2026)

○​
Introduced CBRN TCLs and outlined mitigation and risk acceptance process.
○​
Incorporated the previous exploratory Misalignment risk domain into a combined ML
R&D and Misalignment risk domain and outlined mitigation and risk acceptance process
for the TCL.
○​
Outlined enhanced level of security for CBRN, Cyber and Harmful Manipulation CCLs to
Security Level 2+ to protect against non-state actors and insider threats.
○​
Included more detail on our risk management process.
○​
Included description of our internal governance structure.
○​
Introduced a glossary.
●​
Version 3.0 (September 22, 2025)
●​
Version 2.0 (February 4, 2025)
●​
Version 1.0 (May 17, 2024)


Frontier Safety Framework | 17



[[page 18]]

## Frontier Safety Framework
## Glossary

## Model
Frontier AI Models or Models: are trained on a large data set, display significant generality, are capable
of performing a wide range of distinctive tasks and have high-impact capabilities. Frontier AI models’
agentic and reasoning-based general capabilities near or exceed those of other Google models. There
may be many different checkpoints and versions of the same model along the entire model lifecycle: we
consider checkpoints and versions the same model if their base capabilities stem primarily from the
same foundational training run, but will conduct additional testing on new versions as specified in
Section 1.3. When we refer to “model” in this Framework, we may be referring to a checkpoint or version
of the model.
## Risk Domains
CBRN: risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or execution of a chemical,
biological, radiological, or nuclear (“CBRN”) threat.
Cyber: risks of models assisting in the development, preparation, and/or execution of a cyber attack.
Harmful Manipulation: risks of models with high manipulative capabilities potentially being misused in
ways that could reasonably result in large scale harm.
ML R&D and Misalignment: risks of models’ ML R&D capabilities or misaligned propensities reducing
society’s overall ability to manage AI risks. Such capabilities may serve as a substantial cross-cutting risk
factor for several pathways (e.g. through misalignment, misuse or structural risks) to severe harm.
## Thresholds
Critical Capability Levels (CCLs): are the main capability thresholds around which we have built the
Framework process. They represent the capability levels at which, absent mitigation measures, frontier
AI models or systems may pose heightened risk of severe harm.
Tracked Capability Levels (TCLs): are capability thresholds which capture a lower level of risks than our
CCLs. They represent the capability levels at which, absent mitigation measures, frontier AI models or
systems may pose heightened risk of significant but not severe levels of harm.
Alert Thresholds: are thresholds which we set marginally earlier than our CCLs. Crossing these
thresholds indicates a CCL may be reached in the foreseeable future, due to the speed of capability
progress. In particular, they are meant to account for the possibility of models reaching a CCL before the
next critical capability assessment cycle.
## Inherent Risk Assessment
Inherent Risk Assessments: the process of evaluating the level of risk posed by the model. This is part
of the risk management process, and includes material capability change assessments and critical
capability assessments.
Critical Capability Assessments: determine a model’s proximity to T/CCLs through the use of early
warning evaluations and other sources of evidence.

●​
Early Warning Evaluations: are evaluations which measure the dangerous capabilities of a
model. They specifically target the threats and risk scenarios identified through our threat

Frontier Safety Framework | 18



[[page 19]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

modeling to determine a model’s proximity to a CCL or TCL, and they provide the most direct
evidence for whether these thresholds have been reached.
Material Capability Change Assessments: indicate whether a critical capability assessment is required.
These assessments are typically conducted upon the completion of new post-training runs on various
checkpoints, and they are primarily aimed at determining whether updated versions of a model have
developed material capability increases relative to the last checkpoint subject to a critical capability
assessment. May also be used to assess whether a critical capability assessment is required of
non-frontier AI models.

●​
Material Capability Increases: are meaningful new capabilities or material increases in model
performance that we believe could materially undermine our justifications for a model’s level of
risk being acceptable, for example, by reaching a CCL that the previous version of the model had
not reached.
## Risk Mitigation
Response Plans: are plans put in place when a new alert threshold has been reached to prepare for
future models reaching a CCL. Central to most response plans will be the application of the mitigations
described earlier in the Framework. However, if we assess that risks stemming from the model remain
acceptable and model capabilities remain distant from a CCL, the response plan may include updating
the alert threshold to ensure the safety buffer remains appropriate.
Deployment Mitigations: are safety measures we implement which are intended to counter the misuse
or misaligned expression of critical capabilities in deployments. They may include safety post-training,
input/output/chain-of-thought monitoring and analysis, account moderation, jailbreak detection and
patching, user verification, and bug bounties.

●​
External Deployments: represent model releases to entities outside of Google. They can
include both low-risk external deployments as well as general purpose releases to the broader
public.

●​
Low-Risk External Deployments: represent small scale and private releases restricted to
particular external groups or organizations.

●​
Internal Deployments: represent model releases restricted to Google employees for internal
use.

●​
High-Risk Internal Deployments: represent model releases restricted to Google employees for
use cases with the potential to enable severe threat scenarios (e.g. building internal security
infrastructure or automating ML R&D).
Security Mitigations: are safety measures we implement which are intended to prevent the
unauthorized modification or exfiltration of model weights by unauthorized actors. They may include
identity and access management practices, and hardening interface-access to unreleased model
parameters, among other measures. We communicate the level of security we consider appropriate to
models which cross our thresholds using the RAND model weight security framework.

●​
RAND Security Levels: indicate security goals and principles relevant to frontier developers
aiming to protect their model weights from various actors - with the strength and type of
security measures differing for each category of actor.14

14 See https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2849-1.html.

Frontier Safety Framework | 19



[[page 20]]

## Frontier Safety Framework

## Residual Risk Assessment
Residual Risk Assessments: the process of evaluating the level of risk that remains after all planned
mitigation strategies have been implemented. This is part of the risk management process, following a
critical capability assessment and the effect of mitigations. The residual risk should be brought within the
acceptable levels, as determined by the T/CCLs as relevant.
Safety Cases: are an assessable argument showing how severe risks associated with a model's CCLs
have been reduced to an acceptable level. Residual risk assessments will be supplemented with a safety
case when a model reaches a CCL, and inform a model’s risk acceptance determination.15 For misuse
risk, such an argument may be based, for example, on considerations such as the effectiveness of
mitigations, the scope of the deployment, what capabilities and mitigations are available on other
publicly available models, and the historical incidence and severity of related events. For ML R&D and
misalignment risk, such an argument may be based, for example, on considerations such as the
effectiveness of mitigations relative to model capabilities, and information pertaining to model
propensities and the severity of related events.

15 See also, for reference, https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.01420.

Frontier Safety Framework | 20

