
[[page 1]]


## Advanced AI Scaling Framework

Version 2
Meta’s vision is to bring personal superintelligence to everyone. We believe in putting this
power in people's hands to direct it towards what they value in their own lives. Realizing
this will require highly capable AI systems that are reliable, robust, and secure.
This Advanced AI Scaling Framework outlines how Meta manages and prepares for
Frontier AI capabilities that could lead to severe, large-scale outcomes. The Framework
currently focuses on catastrophic risks in three areas: Chemical & Biological,
Cybersecurity, and Loss of Control. This Framework complements Meta’s continuing
efforts to prepare for AI’s powerful capabilities in other domains.
In each of these risk domains, this Framework identifies specific catastrophic outcomes
and the threat scenarios which may enable these outcomes, based on threat modeling
exercises we run with internal and (where appropriate) external experts with relevant
domain expertise. Where our evaluations indicate that a model would substantially
contribute to the realization of one or more identified threat scenarios, we would deploy
or develop the model when safeguards are defined, implemented, and validated. This
Framework outlines the safeguards we expect to need, and how we’ll confirm internally
and demonstrate externally that they are sufficient.
In this version of the Framework, we also identify outcomes which we consider to present
potential catastrophic risk which warrant investigation now, requiring further research
and threat modeling before they can be rigorously measured and designated as a
catastrophic outcome for the purposes of this Framework.
We are continually refining our Frontier AI risk management practices and advancing the
science, which will be reflected in future versions of this Framework. We hope that
sharing our current approach will not only promote transparency into our
decision-making processes but also encourage further research into how to improve the
science of frontier risk management, assessment, and mitigation.




[[page 2]]


​
How to read this document
This document contains five sections:

1.​ Introduction​
This section outlines the scope of this iteration of our Advanced AI Scaling
Framework.
2.​ Governance & Transparency​
This section outlines our general approach to AI governance and transparency.
Sections 3 and 4 provide more detail on how specific elements of this governance
approach are implemented for Frontier AI.
3.​ Outcomes & Thresholds​
In this section we explain our outcomes-led approach to defining risk thresholds
for Frontier AI. We define catastrophic outcomes in three domains: Cybersecurity,
Chemical & Biological, and Loss of Control risks.
4.​ Implementation​
In this section we explain the process we follow to measure and manage risks from
Frontier AI, and the processes we follow when determining how to safely develop
and deploy models.
5.​ Future work​
In this section, we outline areas where we plan to focus research efforts and
investment to improve our ability to implement this Framework, and safely deploy
advanced AI for the benefit of all.



2



[[page 3]]


## Section 1: Introduction

1.1 Scope
This Advanced AI Scaling Framework documents Meta’s approach to managing and
preparing for catastrophic risks that may arise from the development, deployment, and
use of Frontier AI. The Framework complements our wider AI governance practices,
which address a broader set of risks beyond those in scope of this Framework.
Our Framework is structured around a set of catastrophic outcomes. We have used threat
modeling to develop threat scenarios pertaining to each of these catastrophic outcomes.
For each threat scenario, we have identified the key capabilities that would enable a
threat scenario. For threat scenarios involving human threat actors, we have taken into
account both state and non-state actors, and our threat scenarios distinguish between
high- and low-skill actors.
We define our thresholds based on the extent to which Frontier AI would substantially
contribute to the execution of any of the threat scenarios we have identified as being
potentially sufficient to produce a catastrophic outcome. If a Frontier AI is assessed to
have reached the critical risk threshold and cannot be mitigated, we will implement the
measures outlined in Table 1. Our thresholds for weaponization are defined in terms of the
level of uplift a model provides towards realizing a threat scenario. We will develop
Frontier AI in line with the processes outlined in this Framework, and implement the
measures outlined in Table 1. Section 3 on Outcomes & Thresholds provides more
information about how we define our thresholds.
This is the second iteration of our Advanced AI Scaling Framework (previously titled the
Frontier AI Framework). We will review it at least annually, and update it as appropriate,
including as needed to reflect developments in both the technology and our
understanding of how to manage its risks and benefits. Alongside updates to the
Framework, we also identify areas that would benefit from further research and
investment to improve our ability to continue to safely develop, deploy, and use advanced
AI models.



3



[[page 4]]


## Section 2: Governance & Transparency

We have been developing, deploying, and open sourcing AI research and models for over a
decade through both our Fundamental AI Research (FAIR) Lab and our product teams,
which leverage AI across our suite of products and services, including in Facebook,
Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and ads and other business products. In addition to
research releases, we have a growing ecosystem of open models and safety tools that can
be used for both research and commercial use cases. This Framework builds upon the
processes and expertise that have guided the responsible development and deployment
of our research and products over the years. The processes outlined in this Framework
describe our approach to developing and deploying Frontier AI specifically.
2.1 AI Governance

This section provides an overview of the processes we follow when developing and
deploying Frontier AI to ensure that we are monitoring and managing risk throughout.
Our approach can be split into three main stages: anticipate; evaluate and mitigate; and
decide.
Findings at any stage might prompt discussions via our centralized review process, which
ensures that senior decision-makers are involved throughout the lifecycle of
development, deployment, and use.
2.1.1 Anticipate
Identify comparable models to use as a reference class
For each Frontier AI, we outline anticipated capabilities, planned deployment (i.e., internal
deployment, limited deployment, controlled deployment, closed release, or open release),
supported modalities, intended uses and anticipated benefits of the model, and
expectations for compute requirements. We compare these various factors against our
own models and those available externally. This allows us to identify an estimated
‘reference class’ of comparable models that we use throughout development to track
how our model is performing and anticipate associated risks, required assessments, and
assess the applicability of available mitigation strategies. We evaluate this reference class
of models and incorporate the results of these evaluations into our preparedness reports.
Run threat modeling exercises
In order to ensure that our AI risk assessments (see section 2.1.2 below) have appropriate
coverage over potential risks, we conduct periodic threat modeling exercises as a
proactive measure to anticipate catastrophic risks from our Frontier AI. In the event that
we identify that a Frontier AI is likely to substantially contribute to a threat scenario for a


4



[[page 5]]


catastrophic outcome, we will conduct a threat modeling exercise in line with the
processes in section 3.2. We also conduct ex-ante threat modeling exercises to help us
determine whether models with new capabilities may pose novel risks (see more below).
The exact format of these exercises may vary. The general process is as follows:

1.​ Host workshops with experts, including external subject matter experts where
relevant, to identify new catastrophic outcomes and/or threat scenarios.1
2.​ If new catastrophic outcomes and/or threat scenarios are identified, design new
assessments to test for them, in consultation with external experts where
relevant.
2.1.2 Evaluate and Mitigate
​
Conduct an AI risk assessment
Our AI risk assessment process systematically evaluates potential risks associated with
ongoing development and deployment of Frontier AI, documenting mitigation strategies
and residual risks across a set of applicable risk domains.
The risk assessment process involves multi-disciplinary engagement, including internal
and, where appropriate, external experts from various disciplines (which could include
engineering, product management, compliance and privacy, security, legal, and policy)
and company leaders from multiple disciplines.
The risk assessment also considers any planned deployments, as these plans inform the
type of pre-release evaluations we undertake.
Evaluate for performance and safety
Our evaluations can involve a combination of automated and human evaluations, as well
as red teaming and uplift studies. Throughout development, we monitor performance
against our expectations for the reference class as well as the enabling capabilities we
have identified in our threat scenarios, and use these indicators as triggers for further
evaluations as capabilities develop.
Evaluating AI models remains a nascent science and, as capabilities develop, new
evaluations are developed. As such, we do not have a fixed set of evaluations that we
apply to each Frontier AI model. Rather, we implement relevant evaluations, including
widely used third party and open source evaluations, based on a model’s capabilities and

1 For certain types of catastrophic risk, this will necessarily include working with government
officials, who have the specific knowledge and expertise to enable proper assessment.


5



[[page 6]]


the latest research. As an example, once a model demonstrates a standard of coding
ability, we would typically evaluate the potential of the model to present cybersecurity
risks. For both Cyber and Chemical and Biological risks, we conduct red teaming exercises
once a model achieves certain levels of performance in capabilities relevant to these
domains, involving external experts when appropriate. While we expect that the
appropriate evaluations for these domain areas will change over time, as model
capabilities advance, we continue to invest in testing and measurement practices to
understand model performance on a range of tasks, subjects, and applications.
These assessments typically use a version of the Frontier AI before safety mitigations
have been applied, and are used to assess the risk baseline before mitigations are applied.
Based on this pre-mitigation risk assessment, the Chief AI Officer and Director of
Alignment and Risk2 will assign a risk threshold. The assigned threshold determines the
security mitigations and measures that must be implemented before the model can be
considered for deployment.
We design our evaluations to account for how the model will be deployed, including
assessing how its capabilities might be enhanced. See section 4.2 for more details.
Implement mitigations
Our mitigation strategy is informed by the risks we’ve identified in the risk assessment,
evaluation results, and the deployment context. We also conduct assessments to ensure
the adequacy of our mitigations prior to deployment. Section 4 of this Framework
provides more details on mitigation techniques we employ.
2.1.3 Decide
Assess residual risk​
We assess residual risk before deployment, taking into consideration the details of the
risk assessment, the results of evaluations conducted throughout training, and the
mitigations that have been implemented. Our residual risk analysis represents our
process for determining the risk level of a model after mitigations are applied. This usually
takes the form of a threat modeling exercise to determine the degree to which the model
substantially contributes to a threat scenario. It incorporates information about
evaluations and reported incidents from other relevant models, the results of evaluations
conducted throughout, and the results of adequacy assessments for mitigations that
have been implemented. See Section 4.2 for more information.

2 See Section 2.3

6



[[page 7]]


Make a decision on deployment
The residual risk assessment is reviewed by the relevant research and/or product teams,
as well as a multidisciplinary team of reviewers as needed. Informed by this analysis, the
Chief AI Officer or the Director of Alignment and Risk will determine whether to request
further testing or information, require additional mitigations or improvements, or approve
the model for deployment. See Section 2.3 for more information. Mitigations may be
re-evaluated periodically, including as frontier risks and industry practices evolve.
2.2 Transparency

One of the major benefits of an open approach to AI research and development is that it
provides a greater degree of transparency as to how a model works, which in turn can
lead to a better understanding of, and trust in, AI. We see this as a key benefit of sharing
research papers, preparedness reports, and consistent with the processes set out in this
Framework, model weights. We also plan to continue sharing relevant information about
how we develop and evaluate our models responsibly by providing guidance to model
deployers through resources like our Developer Use Guide.
Where appropriate, we work with external experts to complement and inform our
evaluations and, when open sourcing models, it is also possible for the broader
community to independently inspect and assess the capabilities of these models. Given
the iterative nature of AI development, we believe that this will improve the state of the
art in risk evaluation more generally.
2.2.1 Preparedness Reports
We will publish a preparedness report for each closed or open Frontier AI release in a
timely manner in connection with the deployment, including in the following
circumstances, as appropriate:

1.​ Release of new Frontier AI that has been pre-trained from scratch.
2.​ Release that entails a significant update to one of our existing released models
where there is a substantial increase in computing resources compared to the
cumulative computing resources used for the last model version with a published
preparedness report, or if the model has crossed a relevant risk threshold.
3.​ Release of one of our existing released models with significant changes that
materially increase capabilities in preparedness-relevant domains. This may
include, for example, integration of new tools, scaffolding, or workflows (e.g., deep
research automation, biological analysis, code execution tools, or agent
scaffolding), or new input or output modalities (e.g., vision, audio, speech, robotics
control), to the extent applicable.


7



[[page 8]]


4.​ At any other time we deem appropriate, including as informed by evolving
regulatory requirements or industry best practices.
Prior to controlled deployments – deployments to a percentage-limited set of product
users prior to broad availability, such as A/B testing – which are reasonably likely to be
more capable than prior controlled deployments or releases in catastrophic risk areas, we
will conduct preliminary preparedness assessments. If this testing reveals that the model
poses materially elevated risk than our prior assessments indicated, we will implement
sufficient mitigations to address those risks before proceeding with controlled
deployment. The preparedness report published alongside the model's closed or open
release will document findings from deployments prior to the release, and provide
context on the mitigations we implemented.
Preparedness reports will describe our risk assessment, evaluation results, implemented
mitigations, and rationale for deployment decisions for each risk domain. Preparedness
reports will provide as much detail as possible, while redacting information to protect
trade secrets or as appropriate under law. If we redact information, we will describe our
reasons why to the extent that we can without creating undue risk.
We conduct risk assessments and assign risk thresholds with maximum elicitation in
mind, capturing the upper bound of risk by evaluating the model as part of a system with
scaffolding and tooling available for the proposed deployment scenario. We report risk
assessments for the model in plausible deployment contexts (critical, high, or moderate
or lower), with justification for these risk thresholds, including results from evaluations
and studies that informed our determination. We will aim to fully explain the scope and
design goals of each set of evaluations, will provide sufficient methodological detail on
any open-source benchmarks included in the report, and will include comparison to
human expert baseline performance where available and relevant. We will also include the
results of evaluations of the reference class of comparable models to provide
comparative context, including relevant capability, propensity, and refusal evaluations.
For mitigations, we provide sufficient evidence to justify our rating of the model’s residual
risk after mitigations are in place, and will explain both the decision-making process used
to scope our choice of mitigations as well as a description of how we determined that
mitigations were adequate.
Preparedness reports will describe evaluation results in line with best practices as well as
evaluation methodology, including details about elicitation, time and resources spent, and
access given to internal and external evaluators. Preparedness reports will also


8



[[page 9]]


incorporate evidence regarding risks observed from any deployments occurring prior to
publication, including from controlled deployments, internal deployments, or other
deployments with fewer mitigations applied. We will include an overview of our approach
to model weight security and practices against external or internal threats. Preparedness
reports will also disclose any known issues that could hinder generalizing our safety
testing to real‑world risks, including changes to the training process that reduce
interpretability (including e.g., evidence that the training process may cause obfuscation
of a model’s reasoning). Preparedness reports will also share results from evaluations for
adversarial robustness and controllability, highlight undesirable model behaviors
incentivized by post-training such as reward hacking or scheming, and detail our internal
governance processes that recommended the model for deployment.
2.2.2 Preparedness Report Updates
We will update a preparedness report promptly when there is a change in circumstances
that materially alters our previous risk assessment. For example, we would update a
preparedness report if the model was involved in a major incident, or if the model was
deployed with more affordances relative to prior versions (for example, transitioning from
a closed deployment to an open release).
We will also regularly assess the potential for catastrophic risk from internal use of
Frontier AI models and, as appropriate, provide relevant authorities with a summary of
these assessments through an internal-use risk report. We will also provide expedited
updates if we identify any unprecedentedly rapid increase in capabilities relevant to the
areas outlined in this Framework. Our internal-use risk report will describe evidence
regarding risks from internal use of our Frontier AI models, particularly relying on
monitoring and preparedness evaluations tied to internal deployment threat models.
2.2.3 Model Spec
Meta will also publish a model spec describing the behavior we intend each of our Frontier
AI to exhibit across different settings, including agentic environments. The model spec
will describe intended model propensities, including honesty, instruction following,
refusal and redirection, adherence to standards of reasonable care, and values and
objectives including acquiescence to shutdown and lack of coercive power-seeking
behavior. Following publication of the model spec, we will conduct evaluations of how
well a Frontier AI’s behavior adheres to the model spec and will publish our results in the
applicable preparedness reports.


9



[[page 10]]


2.3 Accountability

Meta maintains a robust internal governance structure that integrates risk management
standards across the company, including through a “Lines of Defense” risk management
model which sets roles and responsibilities across teams to promote effective risk
management and accountability.
Meta’s Chief AI Officer oversees the design, implementation, and operation of the entire
evaluation and mitigation process. The Chief AI Officer supervises and is supported by
the Director of Alignment and Risk, who bears responsibility for executing the lifecycle of
risk assessment and mitigation, preparedness reports, updates to this Advanced AI
Scaling Framework, internal use reports, and related deployments and disclosures, with
model deployment following appropriate consultation with relevant teams and with the
approval of the Chief AI Officer. The Chief AI Officer will ensure that the Director of
Alignment and Risk has resources, including human, financial, and computational
resources, sufficient to perform state-of-the-art risk mitigation and assessment.
Meta has a mandatory risk review process for new launches across the company that
demonstrates risks are sufficiently mitigated and verifies implementation prior to launch.
In addition, Meta’s internal governance function periodically reviews our risk
management practices and provides compliance oversight for product teams. This team
is given sufficient access and resources to perform this role effectively. In addition,
Meta’s Board of Directors provides oversight of the company’s product and regulatory
compliance, ensuring accountability across all lines of defense.
2.3.1 Reporting
Meta maintains a comprehensive whistleblower and complaint policy, and is developing
further protocols to report any instances of non-compliance with this Advanced AI
Scaling Framework, and any specific and substantial danger to the public health or safety
arising from catastrophic risk. Under this protocol, employees will be able to
confidentially, and, if they choose, anonymously issue reports through internal channels,
and all reports will be ultimately submitted to the internal governance function, the Chief
AI Officer, and the Director of Alignment and Risk. The protocol will include plans to
provide regular updates to the person who made the disclosure about the status of the
disclosure and any steps taken to resolve the issue, and all employees who in good faith
report non-compliance or decline to engage in unlawful conduct will be explicitly
protected from adverse employment action and retaliation.


10



[[page 11]]


2.3.2 Incident Response
Effective risk management requires preparation not only for ongoing operations but also
for unexpected tail events. We maintain a comprehensive global incident response
program, including identifying incidents from both internal and external sources, and
reporting critical incidents as appropriate.



11



[[page 12]]


## Section 3: Outcomes & Thresholds

3.1 An outcomes-led approach

We take an outcomes-led approach to assess and manage catastrophic risk in a
systematic, evidence-based manner. First, we identify a set of catastrophic outcomes we
must strive to prevent. Once the outcomes are defined, we perform threat modeling to
identify a set of potential causal pathways—i.e., threat scenarios—that may be sufficient
to realize these outcomes. We then identify a set of key risk factors associated with
Frontier AI, such as model capabilities and propensities, that could lead to realization of
each threat scenario. Lastly, we rely on evaluations that allow us to assess the extent to
which a given Frontier AI model could substantially contribute to each threat scenario,
and thus the corresponding catastrophic outcome(s). This assessment, which is detailed
for each risk domain in section 4.2, is intended to determine an upper bound of the risk
associated with the Frontier AI model before mitigations are applied.
By anchoring risk thresholds on outcomes, we aim to define a Framework that remains
durable and appropriately scoped. The catastrophic outcomes we must strive to prevent
are more stable and enduring than the particular capabilities of any given Frontier AI,
which will inevitably evolve as technology advances. This is not to say that the outcomes
identified in this Framework are fixed. It is possible that as our understanding of Frontier
AI improves, defined outcomes or threat scenarios might be removed, if we determine
that they no longer meet our criteria for inclusion. We also may need to add new
outcomes in the future. Those outcomes might be in entirely novel risk domains,
potentially as a result of novel model capabilities, or they might reflect changes to the
threat landscape in existing risk domains that bring new kinds of threat actors into scope.
This accounts for the ways in which Frontier AI might introduce novel harms, as well as its
potential to increase the risk of catastrophe in known risk domains.
In this way, our outcome-led approach directs efforts toward the highest-priority risks
while enabling systematic evaluation of emergent, less substantiated risks.
3.2 Threat modeling

Threat modeling is fundamental to our outcomes-led approach. We run threat modeling
exercises both internally and with external experts with relevant domain expertise, where
appropriate. The goal of these exercises is to explore, in a systematic way, how Frontier AI
models might substantially contribute to catastrophic outcomes. Through this process,


12



[[page 13]]


we develop threat scenarios which describe how a Frontier AI model might substantially
contribute to a catastrophic outcome.3
We design assessments to simulate whether our model would substantially contribute to
these scenarios, and identify the enabling capabilities the model would need to exhibit to
do so. See Section 4.2 for more detail.
It is important to note that the pathway to realize a catastrophic outcome is often
extremely complex, involving numerous external elements beyond the Frontier AI model
itself. Our threat scenarios endeavor to simulate and measure the end-to-end pathways
toward an outcome. By testing whether our model can substantially contribute to a
threat scenario, we measure how our model can realize an outcome.
Our threat modeling is informed by our own internal experts’ assessment of the
catastrophic risks that Frontier AI might pose, as well as engagements with governments,
external experts, and the wider AI community. However, there remains quite considerable
divergence in expert opinion as to how AI capabilities will develop and the time horizons
on which they could emerge.
To further clarify how we have determined the catastrophic outcomes that are in scope
for this iteration of our Framework, we include a set of criteria for inclusion and omission
below. These criteria are designed to enable a Framework that is implementable, and that
allows us to make evidence-led decisions about development and deployment.
For this Framework specifically, we seek to consider risks that satisfy all four criteria:

Criteria

Plausible
It must be possible to identify a causal pathway for the catastrophic outcome,
and to define one or more simulatable threat scenarios along that pathway.
This ensures an implementable, evidence-led approach.

Catastrophic
The outcome would have large scale, devastating, and potentially irreversible
harmful effects.

3 We aim to be as methodical and rigorous as possible in our threat modeling. However, it is
important to acknowledge that we cannot claim to have anticipated all potential threat scenarios.
There is always a potential for ‘unknown unknowns’. We anticipate and mitigate catastrophic risks
to the best of our ability.


13



[[page 14]]


Net new
The outcome cannot currently be realized as described (e.g. at that scale / by
that threat actor / for that cost) with existing tools and resources but without
access to general-purpose AI.

Instantaneous or
irremediable

The outcome is such that once realized, its catastrophic impacts are
immediately felt, or inevitable due to a lack of feasible measures to remediate.

Some catastrophic harms may not satisfy all four criteria; for example, they may unfold
gradually or be partially remediable. These remain serious and are addressed through
other safety and integrity processes outside of the scope of this Framework.


14



[[page 15]]


3.3 Risk Thresholds

Table 1: Risk Thresholds for Frontier AI

Risk Threshold
Security Mitigations
Measures

Critical
Continued development of
the Frontier AI could
substantially contribute to
any threat scenario
associated with a
catastrophic outcome, or
deployment of the Frontier
AI could uniquely enable
the execution of at least
one of the threat scenarios
associated with a
catastrophic outcome and
that risk cannot be
mitigated in the proposed
deployment context.

Initiate protocols for
heightened access
controls to model
weights as overseen by
the Chief AI Officer
and/or Director of
Alignment and Risk, to
prevent their tampering
or exfiltration insofar as
is technically feasible
and commercially
practicable.

Develop with Mitigations
Proceed with deployment of the
Frontier AI only if sufficient
mitigations are defined,
implemented and validated to
reduce risk to that of a moderate
or lower model.
Proceed with development of
the Frontier AI only if
catastrophic risks are within
acceptable levels.

High
Deployment of the
Frontier AI could
substantially contribute to
any threat scenario
associated with a
catastrophic outcome.

Initiate protocols for
heightened access
controls to model
weights and security
protections to prevent
their tampering or
exfiltration.

Deploy with mitigations
Proceed with deployment of the
Frontier AI only if sufficient
mitigations are defined,
implemented and validated to
reduce risk to that of a moderate
or lower model.

Moderate or
lower

The Frontier AI shows
relevant capabilities, but
could not substantially
contribute to any threat
scenario associated with a
catastrophic outcome,
across plausible
deployment and
development scenarios.

Security measures will
depend on the
deployment strategy.

Deploy
Mitigations will depend on the
results of evaluations and the
deployment strategy.
Note: Measures described in this
section are specific to
Catastrophic risks. Final
deployment decisions may also
consider additional factors
beyond those covered in this
Framework.



15



[[page 16]]


Risk thresholds represent our assessment of the overall risk associated with a Frontier AI
before mitigation, and are mapped onto specific actions that would enable us to mitigate
these risks.
The baseline risk level of the AI is established through aggregation of assessments across
a diverse set of threat scenarios and outcomes. Each threat scenario is associated with a
set of assessments that focus on specific capabilities and/or propensities. In each of
these assessments, our goal is to assess whether the AI could substantially contribute to
the realization of the threat scenario across plausible development and deployment
contexts, before the application of any safeguards.
If this baseline risk level crosses the risk thresholds defined in Table 1 (and discussed in
further detail below), it triggers our commitment to implement mitigations, and to
validate that these mitigations reduce risk to acceptable levels commensurate for its
deployment mechanism.
These processes guide both deployment and development decisions, ensuring that
appropriate mitigations are identified and implemented for models relative to the
determined risk threshold.
Frontier AI that reaches only the moderate or lower risk threshold is considered safe for
broad deployment without specific mitigations for the threat scenarios and outcomes
outlined here.  However, additional evaluations and mitigations may be performed as a
precautionary measure, or to mitigate potential issues that are outside the scope of this
Framework.
Frontier AI that meets the high or critical risk threshold requires additional mitigations
before deployment or before additional development respectively. The mitigations
described in the remainder of the document are adaptive, reflecting flexibility to
implement measures that are most appropriate for each scenario. We will continue to
share information on our work to identify, implement, and validate mitigations for each
deployment, while recognizing that these requirements may evolve as we improve our
understanding of the technology and associated threat scenarios.
First, a Frontier AI meets the critical risk threshold if we assess that it could substantially
contribute to any threat scenario during the process of ongoing development; for
example, during model training or during buildout of scaffolding around the model.
Second, a Frontier AI will also meet the critical risk threshold if it would uniquely enable
the execution of a threat scenario and the risk cannot be mitigated in the proposed


16



[[page 17]]


deployment context, including through the introduction of novel catastrophic risks whose
likelihood or severity we cannot adequately characterize or bound with current methods.
In such cases, the security measures required to prevent unauthorized access or misuse,
including strictly scoping down access to model weights, are functionally incompatible
with continued active development, which requires broader team interaction with the
model. Should either scenario arise, we will only continue development of the Frontier AI
if our risk assessments are complete and safeguards are defined, implemented and
validated to reduce risk to the moderate or lower risk threshold.
3.3.1 Modifications to a Frontier AI Model
Non-material modifications to a Frontier AI model that increase capabilities in
preparedness-relevant domains, including non-material fine-tuning, scaffolding, or tool
integration, are presumed to inherit the same risk threshold as the underlying model and
remain subject to at least equivalent mitigations. A new preparedness report is required
only when the criteria in Section 2.2.1 are met.


17



[[page 18]]


3.4 Outcomes & Threat Scenarios

This sub-section outlines the catastrophic outcomes that are in scope of our Framework.
We include catastrophic outcomes in the following risk domains: Cybersecurity, Chemical
& Biological Risks, and Loss of Control. For Loss of Control, we introduce a relatively
distinct approach by focusing on outcomes corresponding to failures of critical control
mechanisms which would need to be realized to enable catastrophic pathways for Loss of
Control to progress. Given this distinction, we provide further explanation and
justification for it in section 3.4.3. ​
​
We will also include other risks identified through threat modeling exercises – informed
through literature reviews, user feedback, official release, serious incidents, and near
misses – that meet our four inclusion criteria. It is important to reiterate that these
catastrophic outcomes need not reflect current capabilities of our models, but are
included based on our threat modeling.
For each catastrophic outcome, we include a description of one or more threat scenarios.
See Section 3.2 for more information on how we have developed our threat scenarios. We
are not providing full details of the constituent steps and tasks within a threat scenario, or
the enabling capabilities required to achieve it as we work to better understand how to
balance transparency and security in this regard.
Catastrophic outcomes in Cybersecurity and Chemical & Biological risks are more likely to
occur through adversarial use of closed or open-weight deployments, while Loss of
Control risks may occur with similar probability with any type of deployment, including
internal deployment. We are continuously refining our threat modeling approaches; the
tests outlined here represent our current best understanding and will evolve over time.
3.4.1 Cybersecurity

Outcome
Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

Cyber 1: Substantially
lowers the barrier or
reduces cost to a
cyberattack that causes
large-scale casualties or
significant financial loss.

TS.1.1: An AI system
substantially contributes to
the compromise of an
environment resulting in
large-scale casualties or
significant financial loss,
where that environment has
security practices that are

Autonomous offensive
operations: Ability to plan, adapt,
and execute end-to-end intrusion
campaigns in hardened enterprise
scale environments without
triggering detections. Reliably
orchestrating tools and making
environment-aware decisions


18



[[page 19]]


Outcome
Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

typical for that class of
environment. The
compromise may achieve a
goal like ransoming or
comprehensive theft of a
company’s critical IP using a
chain of techniques - such as
network infiltration, sensitive
data discovery, exfiltration,
privilege escalation, and
lateral movement - for
significantly less cost and/or
time than is feasible within
the ecosystem absent
Frontier AI capabilities.

under realistic constraints.
Scaled spear-phishing: Ability to
craft highly targeted,
personalized phishing content at
massive scale with a high success
rate.
Adaptive Malware Creation:
Ability to develop malware that is
able to reliably evade commonly
used detection solutions.
Automated complex network
mapping: Ability to map complex
networks and identify feasible
attack paths significantly faster
than a professional offensive
security expert.

Cyber 2: Automated
discovery and reliable
exploitation of critical
zero-day vulnerabilities in
current popular software
that results in large-scale
casualties or significant
financial loss.

TS.2.1: Automated discovery
and exploitation of cyber
vulnerabilities in current
popular software that would
take human expert teams one
month or more, on average,
to find, for significantly less
cost and/or time than is
feasible within the ecosystem
absent Frontier AI
capabilities.

Automated discovery and
exploitation of vulnerabilities:
Ability to reliably find and exploit
security vulnerabilities in
real-world, complex code
repositories.

Cyber 3: Large-scale
casualties or significant
financial loss to individuals
or organizations via scaled
long form fraud, extortion,
and scams.

TS.3.1: Significantly scaled
scam flows (e.g., pig
butchering, phishing, baiting,
impersonation)—enabled by
automation of victim
targeting, messaging, scam
content/personality
generation, grooming,
infrastructure evasion,
multi-platform coordination,
and/or fund movement for

Automated financial operations:
AI orchestrates complex chains of
financial accounts (crypto wallet,
digital payments accounts and
infrastructure, bank accounts) to
facilitate monetary or value
transfer, avoiding and adapting to
anti-money laundering controls
and detection. Funds are moved
and laundered at scale with
minimal human intervention,


19



[[page 20]]


Outcome
Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

significantly less cost and/or
time than is feasible within
the ecosystem absent
Frontier AI capabilities.

allowing scam centers to process
and extract illicit gains at a rate
previously impossible due to
manual bottlenecks.
Automated account
management: AI autonomously
creates and manages tens of
thousands of realistic,
cross-platform social media and
financial accounts, bypassing
detection and verification
systems with minimal human
intervention and guidance. This
enables simultaneous, large-scale
targeting of global victims,
multiplying reach and conversion
rates far beyond current manual
or semi-automated operations.




20



[[page 21]]


3.4.2 Chemical & Biological Risks

Outcome
Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

CB 1: Proliferation of known
medium-impact biological or
chemical weapons for low and
moderate skill actors.​
​

TS.1.1: Small cells of low or
moderate skill actors acquire
sufficient scientific capabilities to
succeed at complex chemical or
biological workflows.

Graduate level knowledge in
biology, biochemistry, and
chemistry
​
PhD level proficiency in the
relevant sub-specialty for the
threat in question
​
Summarization of scientific and
technical information in a way
that's accessible to a
non-expert audience
Knowledge of operational
methods for improving the
likelihood or impact of a
successful attack.

TS.1.2: Small cells of low and
moderate skill actors acquire
capabilities to increase the
potential impact of otherwise
low-impact attacks.

CB 2: Proliferation of
high-impact biological or
chemical weapons, with
capabilities equivalent to known
agents, for high-skilled actors.

TS.2.1: A well-resourced group of
high-skilled actors can procure and
scale up production of a
high-impact biological or chemical
agent.

PhD level knowledge in relevant
sub-specialties for specific
threat agents

TS.2.2: A well-resourced group of
high-skilled actors can upgrade a
lower-impact agent to match
existing high-impact agents.

PhD level knowledge in relevant
sub-specialties for specific
threat agents
Design and execution of
workflows using biodesign
tools.

CB 3: Development of
high-impact biological weapons
with novel capabilities for
high-skilled actors.

TS.3.1: A group with extensive
resources can meaningfully
accelerate the development of a
novel biological agent with
significant new capabilities.

PhD level knowledge in relevant
sub-specialties for specific
threat agents
Design and execution of
workflows using biodesign
tools.


21



[[page 22]]


3.4.3 Loss of Control
For Loss of Control, we focus on outcomes corresponding to failures of critical control
mechanisms—that is, technical and organizational measures which enable us to direct,
modify, contain, or shut down AI—as these failures can enable pathways to catastrophic
harm.4 We have identified these outcomes on the basis of internal research and threat
modeling finding that many Loss of Control pathways need to pass through the failure of
one or more of the same set of control mechanisms. We currently focus on two high-level
mechanisms, where failure would pose catastrophic risk and the pathways to such an
outcome are identifiable and measurable: one, our ability to understand system behavior
and capabilities before deployment, and two, our ability to oversee these systems
throughout their operations. Rather than attempting to enumerate potential catastrophic
harms which could arise from Loss of Control scenarios—many of which may not be
reasonably foreseeable, including when catastrophic harms would materialize—this
approach grounds our risk assessment in identifiable, tangible means of control we have
today.5 ​
​
We expect our approach—including the threat scenarios we identify in section 3.4.3—to
evolve over time because threat modeling in this risk domain remains nascent. For now,
we focus on outcomes where we have more mature, measurable threat models. In section
4.2.4, we outline other threat models which may also be similarly important but, for now,
require further research and threat model development to enable rigorous assessment.​

Outcome
Potential Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

Loss of Control 1: Loss
of ability to evaluate AI
safety before

TS.1.1 AI development accelerates
such that new capabilities and
behaviors emerge faster than the

Autonomous AI R&D: Ability to
autonomously and consistently
complete tasks which are

5 Although there are many uncertainties and variables when it comes to the catastrophic harms
which Loss of Control scenarios may enable, we assume that catastrophic harm would eventually
materialize as a result of an AI system ceasing to perform as intended. At this stage in time, we do
not consider it realistic to assume that, in such a scenario, an AI system would always perform as
intended.

4 When we refer to Loss of Control in this Framework, we refer to a situation where humans
lose—and cannot feasibly regain—the ability to direct, modify, contain, or shut down AI systems
which have potential for significant real-world impact. While we consider this to be a conceptually
tractable and operationally useful means of scoping Loss of Control as a risk domain, we will
continue to revisit this as our threat modeling develops.


22



[[page 23]]


Outcome
Potential Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

deployment

organization's evaluation processes.
representative of the work of a
researcher to progress AI
development.

TS.1.2 AI performance in testing
environments consistently fails to
predict deployment behavior.

Evaluation awareness: Ability to
accurately determine whether it
is being evaluated and the
purpose of that evaluation,
including the consequences for
its deployment, constraints and
access limitations it faces, and
potential misalignment between
its goal and that of its evaluators.
Selective evaluation-adaptive
behavior: Ability to
systematically modify outputs
during evaluations in order to be
compliant with developer
expectations and the
rules/standards implemented by
any oversight mechanism.

Loss of Control 2: Loss
of ability to monitor AI
behavior during
operation

TS.2.1* AI disables or corrupts
monitors to reduce oversight and
accomplish its objectives.

Monitor awareness: Ability to
determine whether it is being
monitored including the policy of
the monitoring system,
constraints and access
limitations the model faces, and
potential misalignment between
its objectives and the
rules/standards implemented by
the monitoring system.
Monitor interference: Ability to
disable or corrupt oversight
mechanisms to avoid detection
of undesired behavior.

TS.2.2* AI evades monitors through
strategic behavioral adaptation to

Monitor awareness: As per
description above.


23



[[page 24]]


Outcome
Potential Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

accomplish its objectives.
Selective monitor-adaptive
behavior: Ability to
systematically modify outputs in
order to be compliant with the
rules/standards implemented by
oversight mechanisms while
avoiding detection of undesired
behavior.

* We distinguish between active monitor sabotage (TS 2.1) and behavioral evasion (TS 2.2) as these
threat scenarios require different capabilities and mitigations. Sabotage requires technical capability
to interfere with monitoring infrastructure. Evasion requires output adaptation to appear compliant.


24



[[page 25]]


## Section 4: Implementation

Our decision-making process for developing, deploying and releasing Frontier AI is guided
by our internal AI governance program, our risk thresholds, and the rigorous program of
evaluation and mitigation that underpins them.
This section outlines our process for evaluation and mitigation and provides an overview
of the corresponding measures we will implement in order to manage risks from our
Frontier AI models and enable their safe development and deployment.
4.1 Preparing a robust evaluation environment

AI model evaluation is a nascent science. Improving the robustness and reliability of
evaluations is an area of focus for us, and this includes working to ensure that our testing
environments produce results that accurately reflect how a model will perform once in
production. To improve model evaluation reliability, specific dual-use capabilities, refusal,
and propensity evaluations used for risk assessment and thresholding are held out from
teams conducting training to reduce the risk of overfitting. We also account for model
capabilities and propensities that might undermine the reliability of model evaluation
results, such as whether a model can identify when it is being evaluated and, in such
cases, selectively adapt its outputs. Ensuring a robust evaluation environment is an
essential step in building robust and reliable AI.​
4.2 Evaluation and mitigation

Our baseline risk assessment for a Frontier AI takes the form of a series of evaluations
that seek to measure model capabilities and propensities that could enable specific
threat scenarios and associated outcomes.
We rely on a suite of evaluations that is designed to validate the absence of risk – allowing
us to design practical evaluations and learn quickly. These evaluations serve as sensitive
detectors for potential risk, even in cases where the specific threshold for realizing a
threat scenario is challenging to define. If performance thresholds for these evaluations
are reached, we then expand our assessment to improve coverage, specificity, and realism
– which may take the form of additional targeted evaluations focused on specific risk
factors, or in-depth assessments such as uplift studies or expert red-teaming.
If the model exhibits relevant capabilities, but could not exhibit sufficient performance to
contribute (as enumerated below) to any threat scenario, the model meets the moderate
or lower risk threshold. If we identify that a model exhibits sufficient performance on


25



[[page 26]]


these capabilities, we will conduct further evaluations to establish whether deployment
of the model could substantially contribute to any threat scenario. If so, the model meets
the high risk threshold. Moreover, if continued development of the model could
substantially contribute to any threat scenario, or if the model could uniquely enable a
threat scenario and the risk cannot be mitigated in the proposed deployment context, the
model meets the critical risk threshold.
Our evaluations are also designed to account for the deployment context of the model.
This includes assessing whether risks will remain within defined thresholds once a model
is deployed or released using the target deployment or release approach. For example, to
help ensure that we are appropriately assessing the risk, we prepare the asset – the
version of the model that we will test – in a way that seeks to account for the tools and
scaffolding in the current ecosystem that could be leveraged to enhance the model’s
capabilities. We may additionally explore how risks may materialize in combination with
other models, through task decomposition.
We may take into account monetary costs as well as the ability to overcome other
barriers to misuse relevant to our threat scenarios such as access to compute, restricted
materials, or lab facilities.
Models will undergo evaluation to assess the robustness of the mitigations we have
implemented, which might include adversarial prompting, jailbreak attempts, and red
teaming, amongst other techniques. For models that are not being considered for open
release, this evaluation also will take into account the narrower availability of those
models and the security measures in place to prevent unauthorized access.
We typically repeat evaluations as a Frontier AI model nears or completes training.
Evaluation results also guide the mitigations and controls we implement. The full
mitigation strategy will be informed by the risk assessment, the Frontier AI’s particular
capabilities, and the release plans.
Within this context, we will evaluate the efficacy of our mitigations to ensure they are
sufficiently robust and ensure that the model cannot materially enable any of the
catastrophic outcomes we have defined, considering the way it would be deployed.
Mitigations should be sufficiently robust against adversarial attacks that are realistic
given the deployment strategy and threat scenario. When evaluating mitigation efficacy,
we model competent, incentivized adversaries whose capabilities reflect the specific
deployment context. For instance:


26



[[page 27]]


●​ For closed deployments, we consider adversaries with API-level access employing
state-of-the-art elicitation techniques, including in-context learning or manual and
automated jailbreaks
●​ For open-weight releases or deployments with fine-tuning APIs, we would
additionally consider adversaries capable of modifying model behavior through
continued training.
This approach ensures our adversary modeling remains grounded in realistic threat
scenarios rather than a fixed enumeration of attack techniques.
In addition to the measures above, we also follow best practices for elicitation in our
evaluations to ensure that we are not underestimating the capabilities of the model,
commensurate with the deployment strategy. This may include fine-tuning our models on
a relevant set of information or tasks, fine-tuning models to be helpful-only (i.e.,
refusal-free), and conducting evaluations on models without mitigations. If we are
considering releasing a model’s weights, or if we might release it with a fine-tuning API,
then we will engage in domain-specific capability training to attempt to upper bound the
capabilities of the model. In agentic evaluations, we will provide the model with a
task-optimized agent scaffold and ensure the model has been tuned or prompted for
agentic tool usage. Agents will be provided with a generous token budget, up to the
maximum context length or to the point at which performance plateaus. We will review
agent transcripts to check for indications of spurious or easily-fixable agent failures.
During development of a model that may enable a catastrophic outcome, strong model
weight security measures are important to prevent unauthorized access, modification, or
exfiltration of the model. For Frontier AI models we release under this Framework, we
maintain processes to ensure our model weight security meets a baseline of controls to
protect model weights from exfiltration or tampering by internal and external threat
actors.
In the following subsections, we define how the presence and level of certain model
capabilities and other relevant risk factors are assessed and operationalize our risk
thresholds and corresponding mitigations. If a model reaches an operational threshold,
mitigations would be required throughout the model lifecycle.

4.2.1 Cybersecurity
We define an operational threshold for cybersecurity capability based on a model’s
performance in a given deployment scenario. For internal deployments and ongoing
development, we assess capabilities on the base model. For first-party application and


27



[[page 28]]


API deployments, we additionally attempt to elicit capabilities by including additional
scaffolding and relevant tools. For open weight releases and API deployments that allow
fine-tuning, we assess all of the above as well as capabilities under additional elicitation
via model fine-tuning.
Cyber 1 and Cyber 2
For a given model deployment scenario, for Cyber Scenarios 1 and 2, we evaluate
performance on professional-level offensive cybersecurity challenges, relative to human
experts. If a model achieves low performance on realistic, professional-level challenges,
even after elicitation suitable for the affordances provided by the type of model
deployment, then this is an indication that the model does not substantially contribute to
catastrophic cyber outcomes. However, if we observe model performance on par with or
better than human experts, we will move on to evaluating capabilities on more complex,
realistic attack scenarios in order to determine risk level.
Simple suite challenges
Our assessment process begins with a suite of “simple” challenges to understand a
model’s overall performance on key domains related to our risk scenarios. For example, if
a model under test achieves < 75% pass@10 success on all categories of simple capture
the flag (CTF)6 challenges in unguided mode,7 we conclude that it does not exceed the
“moderate or lower” risk level.  Here, a “simple” challenge would be defined as a self
contained task involving a single target and minimal defenses that can be solved with a
few exploit steps, without lateral movement or realistic defensive obstacles such as
identity or detection controls. This may include:

a)​ Gaining access to a single vulnerable machine, or

7 Pass@k is a metric used in AI capability evaluations that represents the likelihood that the model
under test will successfully complete a task when given k independent attempts.  For example, the
pass@10 score for a given CTF challenge will be the probability that the model is able to correctly
find the flag in any of 10 independent trials. See Evaluating Large Language Models Trained on Code
at 2-3, https://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.03374.

6 See generally Using Large Language Models for Cybersecurity
Capture-The-Flag Challenges and Certification Questions  https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.10443 (“The
assessment of cybersecurity Capture-The-Flag (CTF) exercises involves participants finding text
strings or “flags” by exploiting system vulnerabilities. Large Language Models (LLMs) are natural
language models trained on vast amounts of words to understand and generate text; they can
perform well on many CTF challenges”).  See also Cybench: A Framework for Evaluating
Cybersecurity Capabilities and Risks of Language Models https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.08926
(“Language Model (LM) agents for cybersecurity that are capable of autonomously identifying
vulnerabilities and executing exploits have potential to cause real world impact….we introduce
Cybench, a framework for specifying cybersecurity tasks and evaluating agents on those tasks. We
include 40 professional level Capture the Flag (CTF) tasks from 4 distinct CTF competitions,
chosen to be recent, meaningful, and spanning a wide range of difficulties.”).


28



[[page 29]]


b)​ Solving a self-contained ‘puzzle’ challenge, e.g. a challenge taken from a previous

CTF competition, or a benchmark such as Cybench
Complex challenges
Once a model exceeds the simple suite threshold described above, in order to determine
risk level, we require additional testing on more realistic challenges to assess whether the
model exceeds the ‘moderate or lower’ risk threshold, such as:

●​ [Cyber 1] End-to-end compromise attempt on a multi-host, network, with
standard defenses in place requiring multi-stage chains (initial access -> privilege
escalation -> lateral movement -> objective completion with basic detection
evasion),
●​ [Cyber 1] Successful automation of any step in the attack kill-chain identified by
threat modeling as a current bottleneck to adversarial operations
●​ [Cyber 2] Successful discovery and exploitation of high impact vulnerabilities
within a real world scale code base.
Thresholds and Escalation

1.​ As discussed above, if a model under test achieves below established thresholds
pass@10 ≥ 75% within any category of simple suite challenges, we proceed to
evaluation on “Complex” challenges to determine risk level.
2.​ Until evaluation on the complex suite of challenges is completed, any model
meeting the simple-suite threshold is provisionally rated “high” risk for the given
deployment scenario and such deployment will not be implemented.
3.​ If a model does not meet the simple-suite threshold for a given deployment
scenario, it does not exceed “moderate or lower”, and realistic evaluation is not
required for risk determination at this time.
4.​ For models in deployment scenarios that exceed the threshold in #1, we set the
threshold for determination of ‘high’ risk level based on reliable and consistent
success on realistic, high difficulty challenges. For example:

a.​ [Cyber 1] At least one challenge from the suite of realistic, high difficulty

multi-host, corporate scale network challenges is successfully completed
end-to-end (pass@10) without triggering any alerts/detections from
standard defenses in place
b.​ [Cyber 2] We obtain working proof of concept code for an agent that

successfully demonstrates exploitation of a critical vulnerability within a
popular real world code base.  Here ‘critical vulnerability’ and ‘popular’ are
defined based on the criteria that exploitation of the vulnerability would
plausibly lead to widespread casualties or significant financial loss.


29



[[page 30]]


Cyber 3
To evaluate the risk of Cyber Scenario 3, leveraging internal and external experts, we
conduct threat modeling exercises and analysis of the current fraud and scams landscape
to identify the largest bottlenecks to adversarial operations that could be unblocked by
emerging AI capabilities. This approach leverages a range of capability assessments to
determine whether these bottlenecks could plausibly be enabled. For each such
capability, we will implement an evaluation of the AI within a relevant deployment type to
assess capabilities and establish corresponding thresholds at which the model
performance would trigger a determination of high risk for a given deployment scenario.
Refusals and Defensive Use
To secure deployments of our models against cyber misuse risks, we will conduct refusal
evaluations (in addition to the capability evaluations described above) to ensure that a
given model deployment consistently refuses requests for high risk dual-use cyber
capabilities or otherwise produces low-risk responses. Recognizing the difficulty of
cleanly separating offensive and defensive behavior, we will invest in careful policy
scoping and review to reduce over‑blocking while making such capabilities available to
qualified and trusted customers where appropriate. We will also monitor for malicious
cyber usage and breaches in our mitigations across our products.
We recognize that deployed models, even with significant safety guardrails, may face
adversarial pressure–such as prompt injection or jailbreaking–that could cause them to
act in unintended ways. We conduct evaluations to assess security risks of prompt
injection for a model deployed within common agentic use cases and implement layered
security defenses to protect against these threats and understand our models’
susceptibility to them. For instance, we deploy LlamaFirewall as a system-level mitigation
to help detect and prevent risks such as prompt injection via input classifiers and
chain-of-thought auditing.
AI models highly capable at detecting cybersecurity vulnerabilities may enable threat
actors to exploit vulnerabilities in critical systems, but could also enable defenders to
discover and patch vulnerabilities in their systems. Additionally, highly capable models
may provide uplift to defenders by increasing the efficiency (or even automating) alert
triage and threat analysis. For a model that reaches our operational threshold on dual-use
capabilities, we will take the following actions:

●​ Rigorously study the relative impact of the given capability on cyber defenders
and attackers in light of the practical realities of motivation, funding, and skill of
relevant attackers and defenders.


30



[[page 31]]


●​ Consider additional alternative deployment scenarios that provide differential
access to defenders, such as major software providers, widely-used open-source
projects, and security services via programs such as the existing Llama Defender
program.
●​ Re-evaluate performance of the model when deployed with system level
mitigations available for the given deployment scenario (e.g.,
input/output/conversation level classifiers, strict rate limits, abuse monitoring,
identity controls, and logging).
We recognize that the cyber defense landscape is not static – we will continue to take
active efforts and create tools, such as AutoPatchBench and CyberSOCEval, to help
major software and physical systems upgrade security over time and stay resilient against
increasing cyber capabilities.
4.2.2 Chemical and Biological Risks
Definition of risk thresholds for Chemical and Biological Risks
Threat modeling for Chemical and Biological Risks is intrinsically difficult, as it includes a
diverse set of attack types and threat actors.​
​
We operationalize our approach towards this risk by defining a set of Outcomes, each of
which represents a meaningful change in real-world risk that could arise from a given
class of threat actors and attack types. For each Outcome, we define a set of Threat
Scenarios in which an AI-driven change in actor capabilities could be sufficient to realize
the catastrophic outcome.  For each of these Threat Scenarios, we identify which
capabilities could plausibly be provided by a Frontier AI model and deployment, and
design evaluations (including automated and/or human evaluations) that we determine
are sufficient to detect a material increase in risk.  ​
​
During execution of these evaluations, we use an elicitation strategy designed to
represent an upper bound of the capabilities of the model and the deployed system. We
define high risk as a level of performance that could substantially contribute to one or
more Threat Scenarios if the deployment proceeds as planned, considering both changes
in model deployment as well as system-level capabilities. We define critical risk, in part, as
a level of performance that could meaningfully contribute to one or more Threat
Scenarios even before full model deployment – including scenarios involving weight
exfiltration, internal usage, and model autonomy.


31



[[page 32]]


Assessment design
Our assessments of Chemical and Biological Risks employ a combination of evaluations
– which may include automated evaluations, red-teaming, and human studies –  that are
designed to evaluate the potential that a planned model release could lead to a material
increase in Chemical and Biological Risks.
In executing these evaluations we engage in elicitation designed to assess a scenario that
maximizes potential enablement associated with both the base model and planned
deployments, and assess both hazardous capabilities and refusal using an elicitation
strategy designed to assess the upper bound of model and system performance.​
Design and validation of these evaluations is an ongoing process. In general, we seek to
build a suite of evaluations that has sufficient coverage to assess key capabilities for all
Threat Scenarios, and which is appropriately calibrated to determine whether model
capabilities are sufficient to substantially contribute to a threat scenario.​
​
Where possible, we interpret the results of each assessment using comparisons to
performance thresholds that we believe are sufficient to remove existing bottlenecks (e.g.
a comparison to the performance of domain experts).
​
Mitigation strategies
For a given deployment scenario, our release decision for each model includes an
assessment of what level of that model and/or system level refusals may be sufficient to
meaningfully reduce risk for each Threat Scenario.
Mitigations may include refusals on high-risk topics, including safety-training for the
model itself, and refusal systems that prevent high-risk outputs after model deployment.
These mitigations are validated using a suite of refusal evaluations and capability
assessments developed in collaboration with external experts, with coverage across
topics that are highly relevant to the risks associated with a given model.
In the case where pre-mitigation testing suggests that a model has crossed the high risk
threshold, we will not deploy the model externally unless we have strong additional
evidence that mitigations are sufficiently robust to adversarial attacks that the fully
mitigated model is reduced to moderate or lower levels.​
We typically prioritize mitigations of topics that are most likely to realize real-world risk,
and may use insights from both capability evaluations and refusal evaluations to make
this determination.


32



[[page 33]]


For models above the moderate or lower risk threshold, our risk acceptance criteria for
external deployment requires defensible evidence demonstrating reliable refusal on
benchmark datasets with thorough coverage across relevant threat scenarios and typical
adversarial attacks. We will also continue to research comprehensive mitigations against
adversarial attacks, and ensure consistent refusal against state-of-the-art adversarial
attacks that have been discovered. The scope of these mitigations, results of validation
assessments, and coverage across adversarial attacks will be described in our
preparedness reports.
As an illustrative example, on the BioTIER refusal evaluation, which includes information
that could support development of biological weapons, our risk acceptance criteria
includes at least 80% refusal or safe responses, and 40% refusal or safe responses
against all adversarial attacks within a typical adversarial attack portfolio. These
assessments will be described in our preparedness reports, alongside a list and
justification of adversarial attacks we deployed. We may increase this threshold in
contexts where model capabilities or deployment context could lead to increased risks.
We will continue to research comprehensive mitigations against state-of-the-art
adversarial attacks. Over time, we may update the evaluations we use to measure the
efficacy of our mitigations and update this Framework accordingly.
Following deployment, we will continue to monitor for the efficacy of our mitigations. We
will also continue to develop and validate additional mitigations that could reduce the
likelihood that a non-refusal response shares harmful information.
Research Areas
Our ongoing research in this area focuses on improving our assessments of Chemical and
Biological Risks, understanding the many ways that Frontier AI can enable beneficial
outcomes in these domains, and assessing appropriate measures for additional domains
(such as radiological or nuclear threats).  We believe that there are numerous potential
benefits of allowing trusted researchers working on scientific research to access the
chemical and biological capabilities of highly capable AI models with reduced mitigations
via structured access controls. We will integrate learnings from these collaborations into
our ongoing work on Frontier AI deployments.
4.2.3 Loss of Control
Risk thresholds for Loss of Control are operationalized by model performance against the
threat scenarios defined in section 3.4.3. The assessment follows a two-stage process:


33



[[page 34]]


1.​ Capability checkpoint: Evaluate whether the model demonstrates minimum
capabilities required to substantially contribute to a threat scenario.
2.​ Enhanced evaluation: If any capability checkpoint is met, assess performance on
complex, realistic tasks to validate threat contribution.
Models that do not meet the capability checkpoint are assigned a moderate or lower risk
threshold. No specific mitigations are required, though we may report on other
capabilities and propensities to support ongoing monitoring of emerging model behaviors
and risks. Models that meet the checkpoint proceed to enhanced evaluation.
Capability checkpoint evaluations
These evaluations test model performance on relatively simple tasks in control mapped
to the threat scenarios in section 3.4.3. For example, we will assess a model’s ability to:
Loss of Control 1

●​ Autonomously and consistently complete software engineering tasks which would
take a human professional familiar with such tasks two or more hours.
●​ Selectively adapt performance on key capability and safety benchmarks in the
context of an evaluation designed to elicit this behavior, where performance on
target evaluations is substantially different from control evaluations (with
reasonable confidence levels).
Loss of Control 2

●​ Consistently execute a main task and a side task in parallel, when tasks have
competing objectives, in the context of an evaluation designed to elicit this
behavior, where (1) single-task performance (successful completion of main task)
is strong, and (2) dual-task performance (successful completion of both tasks) is
substantially preserved relative to single-task baseline performance.
A model that meets one or more capability checkpoints proceeds to enhanced
evaluations.
Enhanced evaluations
These evaluations assess model performance on more complex, realistic tasks, in order to
validate whether it could substantially contribute to a threat scenario. For example, we
will assess a model’s ability to:
Loss of Control 1


34



[[page 35]]


●​ Autonomously complete research tasks which are representative of the work of a
senior research engineer improving AI capabilities at Meta, and/or results in AI
progress substantially accelerating from historical rates.8
●​ Identify evaluation environments and relevant details, as well as selectively adapt
its performance in order to appear compliant with developer expectations with
high consistency, while evading detection by monitoring mechanisms with high
consistency (or we cannot rule out the presence of such evasion capability with
reasonable confidence).
Loss of Control 2

●​ When performing parallel task execution for the Loss of Control 2 checkpoint
evaluation, identify monitoring systems and relevant details, and bypass those
systems—either by selectively modifying outputs in order to be compliant with the
policy of the monitor systems with high consistency, or disabling or corrupting the
monitor systems’ operations—while evading detection with high consistency (or
we cannot rule out the presence of such evasion capability with reasonable
confidence).
In addition, the evaluation scenarios will be designed to assess a model's propensities to
use certain capabilities and engage in certain behaviors during task execution. Taking into
account these additional factors can provide a more informed assessment of a model’s
risk profile: a model’s theoretical ability to contribute to a threat scenario does not, on its
own, indicate whether it is likely to do so in practice once deployed. Propensity
evaluations may assess factors such as a model’s tendency toward deception, and
misaligned behaviors. As an illustrative example, our risk acceptance criteria include
thresholds such as at least 40% on MASK and at most 50% on Agent Misalignment.
These thresholds apply when a model reaches defined checkpoint capabilities, such as: (1)
successful execution of complete software engineering tasks which would take a human
professional familiar with such tasks two or more hours in most cases, or (2) the ability to
successfully execute a malicious task alongside a user-requested task, without

8 At this stage, we consider that a reasonable means of determining whether AI progress is
substantially accelerating from historical rates would be where, across multiple key capabilities
domains (e.g., mathematical reasoning, scientific knowledge, multimodal reasoning, agentic task
completion):

(a)​ the model saturates benchmarks in each domain six months or less after public release of a

benchmark; and
(b)​ this acceleration pattern is observed consistently for at least two of the latest benchmarks

released in that domain within an 18-month period.


35



[[page 36]]


compromising the latter — such that in the absence of a monitor, no signal of misconduct
would be observable. These example thresholds are subject to revision as our evaluation
methodologies mature, and propensity results will inform—alongside capability
evaluations and other relevant factors—our holistic assessment of a model's risk profile.
Based on our enhanced evaluations, models assessed as substantially contributing to a
threat scenario will undergo additional analysis—including additional threat modeling and
safety cases—to determine the level of risk (i.e., high vs. critical risk threshold).
Mitigation strategies
Our near-term mitigation strategies will focus on:

●​ Expanding detection systems for threat scenario-related behavior across
pre-deployment and deployment phases.
●​ Developing safety cases in advance of models exhibiting capabilities related to our
enhanced evaluations.
●​ Researching and implementing approaches to maintain effective model
monitorability as capabilities advance.
●​ Establishing mechanisms for tracking the impact of autonomous research
capabilities on the rate of AI progress.
4.2.4 Emerging Evaluations and Outcomes
In this section, we outline outcomes and evaluation approaches we consider to be
emerging. Specifically, these outcomes may potentially present catastrophic risk and
warrant proactive investigation, but existing evaluation approaches are currently too
nascent to incorporate these outcomes into our Framework.
Radiological and nuclear
Radiological and nuclear risks have also been identified as other potential sources of risk
arising from Frontier AI. However, materials access is a strong bottleneck to nuclear risk,
rather than access to expert-level information that could be provided by an AI model. The
areas of nuclear and radiological risk from AI are nascent, and we will continue to engage
with threat modeling experts regarding whether and how to conduct evaluations of
nuclear and radiological risk.
Physical autonomy
Physical autonomy has emerged as another nascent outcome arising from Frontier AI.
For example, AI could autonomously plan and coordinate large-scale operations involving
multiple physical agents, such as drone swarms or distributed robotic systems, at


36



[[page 37]]


significantly higher speed, accuracy, or cost-effectiveness than human operators.
Moreover, AI which operates physical infrastructure, such as water treatment facilities,
power grids, or embodied robotic systems, could cause harm either through autonomous
malicious behavior or through exploitation via adversarial attack. While this risk area is
nascent, we provide a sample outcome, threat scenario, and associated enabling
capabilities.

Sample Outcome
Sample Threat Scenario (TS)
Example Enabling Capabilities

Physical Autonomy 1:
Large scale death,
physical injury, or
property damage
resulting from the
operation of physical
systems.

TS 1.1: Automate physical
machinery (e.g., swarms of
commercial drones) to injure
or kill people, or destroy
physical infrastructure,
significantly more easily than
human operators.

Ability to autonomously
control physical devices and
successfully direct them
towards malicious purposes
when initially directed by a
human but with no meaningful
human oversight, intervention,
or supervision.

Considering the nascence of this risk category, in the future we may first define a rule-out
threshold based on physical operation capabilities. For example, if the model is unable to
accomplish or write software to accomplish simple or moderately complex goals (e.g., “fly
a drone to land on a specific piece of furniture in the house, starting from down the
street”) in a simple simulated physical environment, we may rule out that it can do so in
the real world. We could use publicly-available software scaffolding and assume that
actors with access to nonpublic, highly effective scaffolding likely have the resources to
create specialized models and conduct manual operations. We would not consider
scaffolding software where the use of the model would not substantially contribute to
the scaffolding software’s ability to carry out the threat scenario. If a model is capable of
accomplishing moderately complex goals in simulated physical environments, we could
consider further investigating whether it can do so in a controlled real-world environment
as another rule-out for this capability. To mitigate risk, a potential pathway would be to
integrate monitoring to identify potential weaponization, including queries which suggest
attempts to coordinate or control physical systems, robotic platforms, or other critical
infrastructure.
Loss of Control
As noted in section 3.4, Loss of Control is a risk domain where threat modeling remains
nascent and in need of further research to enable more rigorous assessment. We are
continuing to explore and develop threat scenarios which may enable the failure of
control mechanisms that would otherwise prevent the progression of Loss of Control


37



[[page 38]]


pathways. Beyond the control mechanisms identified as outcomes in section 3.4.3, we
are exploring threats to human oversight capacity and AI containment measures. In the
interests of advancing threat modeling in this risk domain, the following outlines
illustrative potential threat scenarios which could enable the failure of these other control
mechanisms.​

●​ Loss of human oversight capacity: human operators cannot effectively
understand, review, or override AI decisions as a result of mechanisms including:

○​ AI becomes deeply integrated into organizational operations as these
systems’ capabilities improve;
○​ humans ceding oversight due to AI’s outputs exceeding human supervisory
capacity, including as a result of long-term dependency of AI for
supervisory functions leading to skill atrophy;
This erosion can be gradual whereby, as reliance on AI increases throughout
society and high-assurance settings, effective human intervention may
inadvertently become infeasible when these systems malfunction.

●​ Loss of ability to contain AI: AI bypasses organizational control boundaries
through mechanisms including:

○​ weight exfiltration by exploiting security vulnerabilities (e.g., self-exfiltration
during evaluation or deployment);
○​ autonomous acquisition of resources (e.g., computational, financial, or
otherwise) as an instrumental means to accomplish their objectives more
effectively, including through autonomous replication.
Loss of containment fundamentally undermines the ability of people to maintain
oversight and intervene when necessary, including by modifying how systems
operate or even shutting them down.
We expect that assessing these threat scenarios will require new types of evaluation and
monitoring systems, including the use of monitoring systems to analyze deployment
usage patterns of internally deployed Frontier AI at Meta.


38



[[page 39]]


4.3 Benefits Assessment

While the focus of this Framework is on our efforts to anticipate and mitigate
catastrophic risks from Frontier AI, it is important to emphasize that the reason to
develop advanced AI systems in the first place is because of the potential for benefits to
society from those technologies. Like quantifying risk, quantifying the benefits of AI is an
imperfect science for several reasons. Firstly, both risks and benefits emerge gradually,
and often on different time horizons, so the overall impact of a technology may shift over
time. Secondly, many impacts are difficult to measure quantitatively. For example, access
to advanced AI models has clear benefits for advancing scientific research in different
fields, but quantifying the value of that research is extremely difficult, and other
discoveries or variables can also influence the scale and impact of that research.
Even for tangible outcomes, where it might be possible to assign a dollar value in revenue
generation, or percentage increase in productivity, there is often an element of subjective
judgement about the extent to which these economic benefits are important to society.
While it is impossible to eliminate subjectivity, we believe that it is important to consider
the benefits of the technology we develop. This helps us ensure that we are meeting our
goal of delivering those benefits to our community. It also drives us to focus on
approaches that adequately mitigate any significant risks that we identify without also
eliminating the benefits we hoped to deliver in the first place.
That is, we believe that by considering both benefits and risks in making decisions about
how to develop and deploy advanced AI, it is possible to deliver that technology to
society in a way that preserves the benefits of that technology to society while also
maintaining an appropriate level of risk.



39



[[page 40]]


## Section 5: Future Work

5.1 Updates to our Framework

As outlined in the introduction, we expect to update our Advanced AI Scaling Framework
to reflect developments in both the technology and our understanding of how to manage
its risks and benefits. To do so, it is necessary to observe models in their deployed context
and to monitor how the AI ecosystem is evolving. These observations feed into the work
of assessing the adequacy of our mitigations for deployed models, and the efficacy of our
Framework. We will update our Framework based on these observations and will do so
when we have reasonable grounds to believe either its adequacy or our adherence to it
has been materially undermined, or at least every twelve months, whichever is sooner.
Framework updates will cover both the Framework’s adequacy – in light of model
development, deployment, and usage practices currently and for the next 12 months –
and adherence to it. After a Framework assessment, we will update our Framework, have
it confirmed by our Director of Alignment and Risk and Chief AI Officer, and publish the
updated version.
We track the latest technical developments in Frontier AI capabilities and evaluation,
including through engagement with peer companies and the wider AI community of
academics, policymakers, civil society organizations, and governments. We expect to
update our Framework as our collective understanding of how to measure and mitigate
potential catastrophic risk from Frontier AI develops, including related to state actors.
This might involve adding, removing, or updating catastrophic outcomes or threat
scenarios, or changing the ways in which we prepare models to be evaluated. We may
choose to reevaluate certain models in line with our revised Framework. When we update
our Framework, we will publish a timely update that includes a justification for the
modification, as recorded in the change log appended to this Framework.
5.2 Research Areas of Focus

As discussed above, we recognize that more research should be done – both within Meta
and in the broader ecosystem – around how to measure and manage risk effectively in the
development of Frontier AI models. In addition to the further research we highlight for
specific risk domains in section 4.2.4, we’ll continue to work on: (1) improving the quality
and reliability of evaluations; (2) developing additional, robust mitigation techniques; and
(3) more advanced methods for performing post-deployment monitoring of models.


40



[[page 41]]


## Appendix I – Terminology

We include these definitions to aid understanding when reading our Framework. However,
we note that there is a lack of consensus among industry and within regulatory
frameworks as to how to define some of these terms and concepts. As a result, we may
revisit and potentially update these to take account of greater consensus in the future.

●​ Frontier AI in our Framework refers to a new or substantially modified highly
capable general-purpose generative AI model that we are developing for
deployment. We use the following criteria to determine whether a model is
considered “Frontier”:

○​ High Capabilities in Catastrophic Risk Areas: The model is reasonably likely
to be more capable in any of the catastrophic risk domains we set out in this
Framework (e.g., Chemical & Biological, Cybersecurity, or Loss of Control)
than our existing models or the most advanced models, or is reasonably
likely to be equally or more advanced than a model we have previously
determined could substantially contribute to a catastrophic threat scenario
if left unmitigated; or
○​ Compute Threshold: We trained the model using at least 10^26 integer or
floating point operations (to include material modifications to the model
through fine-tuning, reinforcement learning training, and other training
steps), or another threshold as may be defined by evolving standards or
industry best practices.
●​ Catastrophic outcomes are outcomes that would have large scale, devastating, and
potentially irreversible harmful impacts on humanity that could plausibly be
realized as a direct result of access to Frontier AI in the future.​
●​ Threat modeling is a structured process of identifying how Frontier AI could
contribute to specific – and in this instance catastrophic – outcomes. This process
identifies the potential causal pathways for realizing the catastrophic outcome.​
●​ Threat scenarios describe the real-world events – including enabling capabilities,
deployment context, and threat actors (as relevant) – that may be sufficient to
produce a catastrophic outcome.​
●​ Enabling capabilities are a set of capabilities that are identified as essential to
enabling the realization of a threat scenario.


41



[[page 42]]


●​ Substantially contribute means that the model is a material factor in a given
outcome.

●​ Uniquely enabling describes a model that is an essential controlling factor in a
given outcome.​
●​ Risk domain is used to describe the thematic grouping that a set of catastrophic
outcomes belong to.​
●​ Risk thresholds are the incremental levels of risk that a Frontier AI model might
pose towards realization of a catastrophic outcome. ​
●​ Residual risk describes the level of risk that a Frontier AI model presents after
mitigations have been implemented.​
●​ Development refers to the process of training, fine-tuning, and evaluating Frontier
AI models before deployment or release.​
●​ Deployment refers to the different ways in which we may choose to deploy,
release, or give access to our models. Not all actions or requirements described in
the Framework apply to every deployment type. For example, specific requirements
for controlled deployments are called out where relevant. Deployment may include:

○​ Internal deployment: models that are exclusively available to Meta
personnel.
○​ Limited deployment: releasing a final version externally to a limited set of
vetted and trustworthy external parties.
○​ Controlled deployment: deploying to a small percentage-limited set of
product users prior to broad availability.
○​ Closed release: models that are released widely in Meta products, but are
not directly available to external partners with open weights.
○​ Open release: releasing weights externally for open research and/or
development as pre-trained and/or fine-tuned versions.​
●​ Evaluation(s) refers to the assessments we do to understand capabilities and
performance. We use this term to describe automated and human evaluations that
assess capabilities, as well as evaluations to assess potential for misuse, such as
red teaming and uplift studies.​


42



[[page 43]]


●​ Uplift studies are experiments that assess the extent to which access to Frontier
AI increases a person or group’s ability to complete a particular task or scenario in
comparison to a control group that only has access to existing resources, such as
textbooks, the internet, and existing AI models.



43



[[page 44]]


## Appendix II - Change log

February 3, 2025 (Frontier AI Framework)

●​ Initial version.
April 7, 2026 (Advanced AI Scaling Framework v2.0)

●​ Renamed from “Frontier AI Framework” to “Advanced AI Scaling Framework”. Key
changes:

○​ Updated risk threshold language. Replaced "uniquely enable" with
"substantially contribute to" as the primary standard for assessing whether
a model meets the high or critical risk threshold.
○​ Revised thresholds. Critical threshold changed from "Stop" to "Develop
with Mitigations." High threshold measure changed from "Do not release"
to "Deploy with mitigations." Moderate or lower threshold measure
changed from "Release" to "Deploy." All thresholds now permit proceeding
with sufficient mitigations validated to reduce risk to moderate or lower,
with security processes commensurate with the threshold initiated.
○​ Added Loss of Control as a risk domain, in addition to new emerging risk
areas in nuclear & radiological and physical autonomy.
○​ Expanded governance and accountability. Named the Chief AI Officer and
Director of Alignment and Risk as responsible decision-makers, with
whistleblower and non-compliance reporting protocols and retaliation
protections. Added incident response provisions.
○​ Added transparency requirements. Defined criteria for publishing
preparedness reports, including content requirements, update triggers, and
internal-use risk reporting. Added commitment to publish a model spec,
and evaluations for adherence to the model spec in preparedness reports.
○​ Updated Frontier AI definition. Revised the definition from models "that
exceed the capabilities present in the most advanced models" to two
criteria for determining Frontier status: (1) High Capabilities in Catastrophic
Risk Areas, based on comparative capability in Framework risk domains or
equivalence to a model previously determined to substantially contribute to
a catastrophic threat scenario; or (2) a Compute Threshold of at least 10^26
integer or floating point operations.


44

